That's amazing. With the song 'Shake It Off,' I really wanted to kind of take back the narrative, and have more of a sense of humor about people who kind of get under my skin — and not let them get under my skin. There's a song that I wrote a couple years ago called "Mean," where I addressed the same issue but I addressed it very differently. I said, "Why you gotta be so mean?" from kind of a victimized perspective, which is how we all approach bullying or gossip when it happens to us for the first time. But in the last few years I've gotten better at just kind of laughing off things that absolutely have no bearing on my real life. I think it's important to be self-aware about what people are saying about you, but even more so, be very aware of who you actually are, and to have that be the main priority.
She's exactly right. When I was in middle school, I had this fantasy — and I really thought this was how life worked — that when we were in school, we had to deal with bullying and kids picking on you for no reason, or making you feel like somehow don't deserve what you want, or you're not what you should be. And I thought that when you grow up and you're not in school anymore, when you're out there in the world with adults, that it's not like that anymore, that people don't attack each other for no reason or try to tear each other down. And I realized when I grew up that it's the same. It's the same dynamics, except we're not walking from classroom to classroom.
It's just interesting how you have to learn how to deal with this at one point or another in your life because people don't necessarily ever grow out of those impulses to pick on each other. Some of us do; some of us realize that's something you do when you're insecure, you try to lash out at someone else. But a lot of people will always do that to other people. So I guess what I try to encourage girls who are in middle school to do is to figure out a way to distract yourself from that negativity. Figure out what kind of art you love to create, or your favorite hobby. Something to throw all of your energy into. And realize that you're gonna have to learn how to cope with this at some point — because it's never going to end, necessarily.
In the past, I've written mostly about heartbreak or pain that was caused by someone else and felt by me. On this album, I'm writing about more complex relationships, where the blame is kind of split 50-50. I'm writing about looking back on a relationship and feeling a sense of pride even though it didn't work out, reminiscing on something that ended but you still feel good about it, falling in love with a city, falling in love with a feeling rather than a person. And I think there's actually sort of a realism to my new approach to relationships, which is a little more fatalistic than anything I used to think about them. I used to think that, you know, you find "the one." And it's happily ever after, and it's never a struggle after that. You have a few experiences with love and relationships, and you learn that that's not the case at all. Lots of things are gray areas and complicated situations, and even if you find the right situation relationship-wise, it's always going to be a daily struggle to make it work. So those are different themes that I don't think people have really seen in my lyrics before.
That's actually a really good example of the way I go into relationships now. If I meet someone who I feel I have a connection with, the first thought I have is: "When this ends, I hope it ends well. I hope you remember me well." Which is not anything close to the way I used to think about relationships. It's that realization that it's the anomaly if something works out; it's not a given.
I hear Peter Gabriel and I hear Annie Lennox. Those were the two artists that I was listening to a lot when I was making this record. What Annie does is so interesting to me, and it's not something you could ever try to duplicate. But the way she conveys a thought, there's something really intense about it. And I think that's something I'll always aspire to.
With Peter, that's an artist who has such incredible taste and such an incredible finger on the pulse of what would excite people, musically. What he was doing in the '80s was so ahead of its time, because he was playing with a lot of synth-pop sounds, but kind of creating sort of an atmosphere behind what he was singing, rather than a produced track. It was just kind of astonishing how he was able to do that. And then you see him in his later work, when he did that album full of modern-day covers. I mean, I just think that he's remarkable at giving people what they want, but they didn't think they wanted.
That line is in there because it's not only the actual, literal narration of what happened in a particular relationship I was in, it's also a metaphor. "Hit the brakes too soon could mean the literal sense of, we got in an accident and we had to deal with the aftermath. But also, the relationship ended sooner than it should've because there was a lot of fear involved. And that song touches on a huge sense of anxiety that was, kind of, coursing through that particular relationship, because we really felt the heat of every single person in the media thinking they could draw up the narrative of what we were going through and debate and speculate. I don't think it's ever going to be easy for me to find love and block out all those screaming voices.
I'll bet you are. That's kind of between us, between the two people who it happened to. I think I put it in the song knowing it was an evocative lyric. And it was almost like this very strange, subtle clue to the media that they don't know everything that happened in that relationship, and they don't know everything that happens in my life, and I can have something really major and traumatic happen to me and they don't know about it.
It's strange because my life now is really abnormal. I get used to the fact that when I go out, there's gonna be a line of people wanting pictures on their phone, and there's gonna be crowds everywhere, even if there weren't crowds when I walked into a store. I realize the only privacy I'm really entitled to is when I'm in my own apartment or my own home, 'cause everything else is kind of — I'm looked at as sort of public property. And there's nothing I can do about that perception except control my mental perspective on it, which is, I need to treat people well. I need to be grateful. I need to take pictures with people when they ask for one. So if I'm not in the mood to do that, I don't leave my house.
Well, yeah. I like for them to be in situations where they feel they can be themselves. Places they can't be themselves are when they're being pushed up against a barricade and there are thousands of them outside of a talk show, and they're trying to get a picture but they're screaming and everybody's freaking out. They can't necessarily be themselves when they're in these chaotic situations where fans usually find themselves.
I've been on the internet for hours every single night figuring out what these people want from me.
I did this thing called the 1989 Secret Sessions a few months ago, way before the album came out. I had spent months picking fans on Instagram, Tumblr, Twitter — people who had been so supportive and had tried and tried to meet me, had been to five shows or however many events but had never met me before. And so I picked these people. And in every single one of my houses in the U.S. and my hotel room in London, I would invite 89 people over to my living room, play them the entire album, tell them the stories behind it. And I'd say, you know, you can share your experience, but please keep the secrets about this album a secret. Let's not talk about lyrics before the album comes out. Let's not talk about song titles. And if you see anybody leaking music, please let us know.
We spent four hours together each night, taking Polaroids and having a great time and giving them a chance to tell me their stories that they wanted to tell in their own time. Not being rushed. Not having to feel panic. And then they went back out into the world, and they kept those promises. They didn't talk about lyrics. They didn't spoil the secret for other fans. Two days before the album came out, it leaked online, and it was the first time I've ever had an album leak without it trending on Twitter — because my fans protected it. Anytime they'd see an illegal post of it, they'd comment, "Why are you doing this? Why don't you respect the value of art? Don't do this. We don't believe in this. This is illegal. This isn't fair. This isn't right." And it was wild seeing that happen.
Well I truly believe in the album. From the start of making one to the time it's finished, I focus on there being a visual theme and emotional DNA to it — including the physical package. I mean there has to be an incentive to go to a store, buy a CD. What people who are forecasting the downfall of the music industry don't think about is that there is a still a huge percentage of the country who drive their kids to school every day and play a CD and listen to it with their kids – there's a CD in the CD player in their car. So I understand that the industry's changing and a lot of people are streaming. However, there are a lot of people who aren't, which is what this release reflects. And so, in the physical CD, we've done an exclusive at Target that has three extra songs. It has three songwriting voice memos from my cell phone that were, you know, the initial rough rough ideas that I had; we put those on the album so people can have insight into the songwriting process. I have five sets of 13 Polaroids from the album photo shoot that are in an envelope in the CD, and depending on what album they get, they'll get a different set of polaroids with lyrics written on the bottom of them. So it's very much an experience that's different than downloading the music itself. It's almost like this kind of collector's edition, the physical copy.
I can imagine other singers listening to this saying, "You know, that's great for Taylor Swift. She has the resources to do all that. It's great marketing, but it's not art — and the rest of us are on a different playing field. We just can't compete with that."
I think that the way that the music industry is changing so quickly, we can learn something from every big release, anything that connects with people. At the end of the day, this is a case by case scenario. If some other artist tries to has the same exact marketing campaign, tries to do secret living room sessions, that's great — if it makes a connection with their fans. If it doesn't make a connection with their fans, then it's not gonna work for them. And I think that what we need to start doing is catering our release plans to our own career, to our own fans, and really get in tune with them. I've been on the internet for hours every single night figuring out what these people want from me. And when it came time to put out an album, I knew exactly what to do.
I wrote my first album when I was 14 and 15, so now we're going on 10 years of making albums right now. The formula has never changed, in that I try to make an album that best represents the last two years of my life. People have essentially gotten to read my diary for the last 10 years. I still write personal songs, and sometimes people like to put a very irritating, negative, spin on that — as if I'm oversharing, as if it's too much information — when this has been the way I've lived my life and run my career the entire time. So I do think it's really important that I continue to give people an insight into what my life is actually like, even though it comes at a higher cost now.
Yes and no. When I do a live show, there are certain songs fans really want to hear, and I'm gonna always play those songs. There's a song called "Love Story" that I wrote when I was 17. I'm going to be playing that as long as I'm playing concerts. And I can go back and I can connect to that song — because of the stories I've heard from fans saying, "We walked down the aisle to that song," or how special I feel it was when that was our first No. 1 worldwide hit. But "Tim McGraw," that song I don't really connect to as much. I connect to it in the form of nostalgia, but that was a song about a first love. I'm in a very different place in my life right now, and I think you can only hope to grow so much, emotionally, that you can't necessarily connect to wide-eyed 15-year-old ideas of love anymore.
I've been thinking about that song — I was listening to it today — because it feels to me like "Wildest Dreams" is in many ways the 10-years-older version of "Tim McGraw," of telling somebody, "Look back and remember me this way." In that song it's a black dress and in the new song, I think it's a fancy dress.
Absolutely. I didn't think about that at all. The only difference is that "Tim McGraw," I wrote that song about a relationship that had already ended, hoping that he would remember me well. "Wildest Dreams" is about a relationship that is just beginning and already foreshadowing the ending of it.
Like I said, I am the mother of a 12-year-old girl, and she loves your music. Her friends love your music. You have a huge platform among a very vulnerable, impressionable set of the population. And I wonder if you think about turning your lens outward, turning it away from the diary page, and sending a broader message to girls who would be really receptive to hearing about big ideas and the big world that's outside.
We are dealing with a huge self-esteem crisis. These girls are able to scroll pictures of the highlight reels of other people's lives, and they're stuck with the behind-the-scenes of their own lives.
There's nothing that's gonna turn girls away from themselves at age 12. I think that it's really important that I speak about things in interviews that I'm passionate about. I have brought feminism up in every single interview I've done because I think it's important that a girl who's 12 years old understands what that means and knows what it is to label yourself a feminist, knows what it is to be a woman in today's society, in the workplace or in the media or perception. What you should accept from men, what you shouldn't, and how to form your own opinion on that. I think the best thing I can do for them is continue to write songs that do make them think about themselves and analyze how they feel about something and then simplify how they feel. Because, at that age — really at any age, but mostly that age — what can be so overwhelming is that you're feeling so many things at the same time that it's hard to actually understand what those emotions are, so it can turn to anxiety very quickly.
We are dealing with a huge self-esteem crisis. These girls are able to scroll pictures of the highlight reels of other people's lives, and they're stuck with the behind-the-scenes of their own lives. They wake up and they look at their reflection in the mirror, and they compare it to some filtered, beautiful photo of some girl who's really popular and seems like she has it all together. This is not what you and I had to deal with when we were 12. It's so easy and readily available to compare yourself to others and to feel like you lose.
I'm 24. I still don't feel like it's a priority for me to be cool, edgy, or sexy. When girls feel like they don't fit into those three themes, which are so obnoxiously thrust upon them through the media, I think the best thing I can do for those girls is let them know that this is what my life looks like. I love my life. I've never ever felt edgy, cool, or sexy. Not one time. And that it's not important for them to be those things. It's important for them to be imaginative, intelligent, hardworking, strong, smart, quick-witted, charming. All these things that I think have gone to the bottom of the list of priorities. I think that there are bigger themes I can be explaining to them, and I think I'm trying as hard as I possibly can to do that.
Not at all. I mean, going back to your daughter's age, I think a lot of our self-esteem and self-image is frozen in those formative years. And that was not a time in my life where I felt accepted or invited or like I belonged. And so I've kind of come into my own in that I no longer prioritize feeling those things.
I mean, by my basic definition, it means that you hope for equal rights and opportunities for men and women.
And how does that play out in the music world that you're a part of? I mean, do you feel like that's not an issue for you anymore?
It's an issue every day that I read a headline that says, "Careful, guys. She'll write a song about you." Meanwhile, I have best friends who are male musicians and songwriters, who write songs about their girlfriends and their ex-girlfriends, and that joke is never made about them. As women in public eye, our relationships are tallied up in ways that they aren't for men. And if men have a lot of relationships that are tallied up, it's thought of as mischievous, cheeky. "Oh he's just out again with another girl." It's somehow done with a wink and a smile and for us, and it's supposed to be shameful, if we've had a few relationships that haven't worked out. When I open up a magazine and it says, "Who's the hotter mama: J-Lo or Beyoncé ?" You don't see, "Who's the hotter dad: Matt Damon or Ben Affleck?" It just doesn't happen. And if we continue this perception that women should be compared to other women and there's a winner and a loser, we're doing ourselves a huge disservice as a society.
Thank you; it's been good to talk to you, too. Tell your daughter hey for me.Kanye West: OK, dope. You still got the Nashville number?
I still have the nashville area code but i had to change it…
I’m like this close to overexposure.
I know! I mean it’s like a compliment kind of.
That’s sweet.
Um, ya. I mean, go with whatever line you think is better. It’s obviously very tongue in cheek either way. And I really appreciate you telling me about it, that’s really nice!
Aw, thanks! Yeah I really appreciate it. Like, the heads up is so nice!
…things without like even asking or seeing if I’d be OK with it. And I just really appreciate it. I never would’ve expect you to tell me about a line in your song.
And then the flowers that you sent me, I Instagrammed a picture of them and it’s the most Instagram likes I’ve ever gotten. It was like 2.7…
Yeah. I mean, I don’t think anybody would listen to that and be like, Oh, that’s a real diss. Like, she must be crying about…
You gotta tell the story the way that it happened to you and the way you experienced it. Like you obviously didn’t know who I was before that.
It doesn’t matter if I sold 7 million of that album before you did that, which is what happened. You didn’t know who I was before that.
… that I can make these things happen and I have the ideas to do it and I create these things and concepts. And, like, I’m always gonna respect you.
And I’m really glad you had the respect to call me that and tell me that as a friend, about the song. It’s just a really cool thing to do, and a really good show of friendship. So thank you.
And you know, if people ask me about it, I think it would be great for me to be like, Look, he called me and told me about the line before it came out. Like, joke’s on you guys, we’re fine.
You guys wanna call this a feud, you wanna call this throwing shade. But right after the song comes out I’m gonna be on a Grammy red carpet and they’re gonna ask me about it and I’m gonna be like, he called me.
…awesome that you’re so outspoken and it’s gonna be like, Yea, she does, it made her famous! It’s more provocative to say, Might still have sex.
…it’s not. It doesn’t matter to me. there’s not one that hurts my feelings and one that doesn’t.
Your album Fearless (IN STORES TODAY) consists of mostly songs about guys. Do you prefer writing love songs or break up songs? I really like to write songs about relationships. I like to write about boys and I love to write about every aspect of love. I think that it’s really fascinating to me how many angles there are to a breakup. There are so many different things you can write about one breakup. So right now, that’s my favorite thing to write about. But also when you’re falling in love with someone, when you’ve just gone on the best date ever and you write a song about it. I think capturing that moment in time is really important and really fun. I am just fascinated by the whole relationship thing and that’s my favorite thing to write songs about.
I read blogs a lot actually. And I love JustJared because you’re really really nice and you’re really positive and I really appreciate that. And usually the people that comment, the people that read your blog are all really cool too. That’s been fun. I read Perez and OceanUp. I don’t know. My dad gets Google Alerts on me and he’ll send me those every once in a while, so it’s just random stuff. I really do appreciate the fact that you’ve been so supportive and so nice to me so thank you.
Going out on the Brad Paisley Tour, that was a notorious tour for pranking. Before I went out on tour, I knew that he pranked a lot of his opening acts a lot towards the end of the tour. I was out on the road with Kellie Pickler and Brad and we became best friends, Kellie and I, and we decided that we were gonna start pranking him the first week. He had a brand new song out then called Ticks, so Kellie and I ordered these huge, gigantic, full body tick costumes and dressed up in them and ran out on stage during his performance of that song. And then we had the other opening act – Jack Ingram – come out dressed up like an insect killer guy with the mask and the spray gun and everything and he proceeded to come out on stage and spray us and kill us. It was great, it was really fun. We have it on video and that’s definitely my favorite moment of the tour.
I’d say Selena Gomez is definitely my best friend in the business. We talk all the time, almost everyday. She’s just such a cool person because she’s so real and a lot of times people get to a level where they’re famous and people know them, people recognize them and they become…less real and Selena’s so cool because she’s got a great sense of humor, she’s a real person. It’s really awesome to have gotten to know her and have her in my life.
The instrument that I write on most of the time is a guitar. You know, I’ll be sitting in my room and I’ll get an idea for a song and I’ll just grab my guitar and start adlibbing. I think that when you write a song on piano it gives you a different feel. I’m not the best piano player but I do know chords and I do know how to play and how to write a song on piano. It’s really fun for me to get to switch that up every once in a while and there are a few songs on the new record that I wrote on piano.
I think my biggest splurge so far has been my tour bus. If I’m spending money, it’s gonna be putting it back into my career. I don’t like to be extravagant any other place. My tour bus is really important because I live there. I’m there more than when I’m home. So, I put a fireplace on my tour bus and a flip-down treadmill and a really comfortable bed and it’s just…I feel like I’m home whenever I’m on my tour bus. I do not regret that splurge.
I’m really into breakfast now. I don’t know why. I was never really a breakfast person before but just recently I’ve come to realize that breakfast is awesome. So, I don’t know. A breakfast date or something. Or if Grey’s Anatomy was on at 6 a.m., I would get up everyday and watch it. Or every week.
The last three ring tones on my cell phone have been “It’s Over” by Jesse McCartney, “You’re So Vain” by Carly Simon and “Low” by Kelly Clarkson. That’s pretty depressing right?
My high school diploma was mailed to me. I’m really excited because I didn’t test out or get my GED. I actually went through the whole process of home-schooling. It was pretty tough doing it on the road, but I made it a priority and got my diploma in the mail this summer. Very excited about it. I don’t know if we have it hung up yet because we haven’t really had much time to hang anything up. It’s weird, I walk into my room and it’s like a time wrap from when I was in eighth grade. I have no new pictures up. It’s like all of me in junior high, it’s pretty crazy. Hopefully we’ll get some time this winter to hang up some new pictures and my diploma and things like that.
I think three things people don’t know about me are that one – I have really bad eyesight. So I have these huge glasses that I wear that are the ugliest pair of glasses you’ll ever see in your life. But they were the ones in the glasses store that no one was going to buy. They were in the corner, they’re all dusty. I’m like, ‘no one is going to buy those, and they’re so ugly’. So I had to buy them. That’s one. Two is that if I don’t have coffee in the morning, I get a headache at night. Three is that I like to paint. Whenever I have downtime, whenever I’m home, I’ll turn off all the lights in my room and light candles and listen to music and paint. Usually I’ll send them to people – like to the radio programmers or things like that. But I like to paint.Host: I’m asking, Taylor, how she gets used to this.  Fans have been going CRAZY here in Time Square for this young woman, Taylor Swift.  They lined up all night just to catch a glimpse of her.  She’s been out signing autographs.  We’re going to talk to Taylor in just a moment, but first, a look at her career.
It’s amazing! They’re so awesome! Um.. It’s been a really amazing tour, because every time we go on stage, it’s.. it’s that.  So it’s been amazing.
I remember that!!  That was like the biggest deal of my whole life then.
That was the night I played the show at Bluebird Café that ended up getting me a record deal.  So it’s really crazy to have that on film.  Especially with you guys.  You’ve been so amazing to me since beyond… before day 1, so thank you.
When I heard about Billboard Woman of the Year, I was just… It was such an exciting, amazing honor.  It’s one of those jumping up and down moments, where you’re just like “Of the WHOLE YEAR?!?!”  I mean it’s just like.. Amazing.  I’m so thankful.  I get so excited about stuff like that and it’s continued to stay exciting – all of this – and ya know, putting out this new fragrance, this is a new thing.  This tour has been a new thing, just in the fact that we’ve been playing stadiums.  Everything feels new all the time even though it’s been happening since I was 14.
Exactly!! Umm.. It’s a line from my song, “Enchanted,” and the line says “I’m wonderstruck, blushing all the way home.”  And, I’ve always loved that line and that phrase, wonderstruck.  You don’t hear it very often.  And so I just felt like if I ever get the chance to make a fragrance, which I dreamed about doing since I was about 14 years old.  Umm.. ya know, ever since I wrote that song, I thought “that would be the title.”  And I’d wanna create a fragrance that smelled the way that word feels.
Yeah!  We spent about a year creating this fragrance, so that entailed creating the actual fragrance, itself, but also I took the designers through my apartment and showed them all the different things that I’ve collected – antiques from all over the world – and some of the things were like – I have a lot of birdcages hanging in my house, and I have a lot of like, star lanterns and so that was where we got some of the ideas, to put the charms around the side of the bottle.
It’s sort of a serious thing.  I mean, it’s been so much fun to have this relationship with my fans where they get me, they understand me, and I feel it works the other way around too.  And so, you have to respect that bond.  There’s a trust there.  And it’s been so fun the way they made my life beautiful, and I’m constantly trying to think of ways to pay them back and thank them.
I choose them just based on how I’m feeling that day.  It’s sort of a mood ring.  It’s random.  It’s always other artists.  Always other artists lyrics.  But it’s like if I think a line’s clever, or a line kind of applies to how I’m feeling that day, it can be anything like that.  But, it’s always something that for some reason applies to me that day.
I’m up late a lot.  I usually write between 2 and 3 in the morning.  It’s usually been like, I’ll try to go to sleep, then I’ll wake up with this idea, then I’ll go to the piano and just write until 4 or 5 in the morning.  But.. I’ve been writing more than ever before lately.  It’s crazy.  I think it’s just kind of my way of figuring things out.  And understanding life and love and feelings and the whole thing, ya know?
It’s just sprinkling.  It’s not a downpour. (Chuckles)
Thank you SO much.
Awesome!
Absolutely! I love you guys! Thank you.
It really does. When I read that line, I absolutely connected to it. I felt like my favorite writers have almost musical hooks in their work, whether it's poetry or a hook at the end of a chapter that makes you want to read the next one. And I think that my favorite writers definitely have something musical about what they do, in saying something so relatable and universal and so simple.
[Laughs.] I've written all my songs on every single one of my records, and that's what's been fun about looking back. My first album is the diary of when I was 14, 15, 16. My second album, Fearless, was from 16 to 18, and so on, and so on. So you have my life being recorded in journal entries from these two-year periods of my life since I was 16. I like to write about love and love lost because I feel like there are so many different subcategories of emotions that you can possibly delve into. I've never missed two people the same way — it's always different for me. I've never fallen in love with someone and had the same exact kind of feeling come over me. So I think that there are all these different mixtures of emotions that go into individual feelings that you feel for individual people. And, yeah, most of the time it doesn't work out.
That's the thing with love: It's going to be wrong until it's right. So you experience these different shades of wrong, and you miss the good things about those people, and you regret not seeing the red flags for the bad things about those people, but it's all a learning process. And being 22, you're kind of in a crash course with love and life and lessons and learning the hard way, and thankfully, I've been able to write about those emotions as they've affected me.
I don't think that I've ever experienced that line before.
Yeah. I've always written songs the same way. You learn different tricks — you learn craft, you learn structure, all that — as you go. Since I was 12, I would get an idea, and that idea is either a fragment of melody and lyric mixed in, [or] maybe it's a hook. Maybe it's the first line of a song. Maybe it's a background vocal part or something, but it's like the first piece of a puzzle. And my job in writing the song and completing it is filling in all the rest of the pieces and figuring out where they go. The reason why I keep doing it is because it's like a message in a bottle. You can put this message in a bottle, throw it out into the ocean, and maybe someday, the person that you wrote that song about is going to hear it and understand exactly how you felt. I think that's what keeps drawing me to songwriting: the spontaneity of how you can get an idea at 4 in the morning or while walking through the airport, and also the fact that it's conveying a message to someone that's more real than what you had the courage to say in person.
The first thing that I think about when I'm writing my lyrics is directly communicating with the person the song is about. I think what I've learned recently is that it's not ... heartbreak that inspires my songs. It's not love that inspires my songs. It's individual people that come into my life. I've had relationships with people that were really substantial and meant a lot to me, but I couldn't write a song about that person for some reason. Then again, you'll meet someone that comes into your life for two weeks and you write an entire record about them. When I first started writing songs, I was always scared that my songs were too personal — like, if I put someone's name in a song, people won't relate to it as much. But what I saw happening was, if I let my fans into my life and my feelings and what I'm going through — my vulnerabilities, my fears, my insecurities — it turns out they have all those things, too, and it kind of connects us.
I started out with community theater, like local theater. I loved being on stage. I loved telling a story through words and music. I actually ended up going to auditions in New York for Broadway stuff. I didn't make it there. What I ended up coming back to is, I always was just so obsessed with the storytelling in country music. Shania Twain, Faith Hill, The Dixie Chicks — I was so taken in by their songs. So I started singing their songs at karaoke contests and singing every single weekend at something, trying out singing the national anthem here or there. When I was 12, I started playing guitar and writing my own songs, and that's when it became something I could never stop thinking about. It went into overdrive. I was always singing at some coffeehouse or some singer-songwriter night or this festival or that festival. It just became everything to me when I was about 12, and that's when I started really pressuring my parents to move to Nashville.
No, actually. I was never convinced I was going to make it. And I look back — my mom and I reminisce about this all the time because we had no idea what we were doing. My parents bought books on what the music industry was like. They had no idea what the music industry entailed and what was involved with it. [Something that was] said to me early on was, "Teenagers don't listen to country music. That's not the audience. The audience is a 35-year-old housewife. ... How are you going to relate to those women when you're 16 years old? You should come back when you're in your 20s." And I kept thinking, "But I love country music, and I'm a teenager! There have to be more kids out there like me."
Absolutely. My confidence is easy to shake. I am very well aware of all of my flaws. I am aware of all the insecurities that I have. I have a lot of voices in my head constantly telling me I can't do it. I've dealt with that my whole life. And getting up there on stage thousands of times, you're going to have off nights. And when you have an off night in front of that many people, and it's pointed out in such a public way, yeah, that gets to you. I feel like, as a songwriter, I can't develop thick skin. I cannot put up protective walls, because it's my job to feel things.
The kind of magical way that criticism has helped me is that that's another thing that I put into my music. I ended up writing a song called "Mean" about that experience, and about this one particular guy who would not get off my case about it. To stand up at the Grammys two years later, to sing that song and get a standing ovation for it, and to win two Grammys for that particular song, I think was the most gratifying experience I've ever had in my life.
There's one song on the new album called "The Last Time," which you sing with Gary Lightbody of the band Snow Patrol, that's particularly heartbreaking. Where does that come from? You have this bright, upbeat personality and this charisma that's been written about so much, and yet there's a lot of pain in what you write about.
The idea was based on this experience I had with someone who was kind of this unreliable guy. You never know when he's going to leave, you never know when he's going to come back, but he always does come back. My visual for this song is, there's a guy on his knees sitting on the ground outside of a door. And on the other side of the door is his girlfriend, who he keeps on leaving — and he keeps coming back to her, but then he leaves again. He's saying, "This is the last time I'm going to do this to you." And she's saying, "This is the last time I'm asking you this: Don't do this again." And she's wondering whether to let him in, and he just wants her to give him another chance, but she doesn't know if he's going to break her heart again. It's a really fragile emotion you're dealing with when you want to love someone, but you don't know if it's smart to.
No, I'm not. I think at 22, I'm still gathering information about who I am as a person. I look at a lot of people's interviews on their lives, [and] I talk to a lot of people who are older than me — I have a great respect for gray hair. A lot of people tell me that when they were 22, they thought they had it all figured out, but they didn't. Just when I start to think that I know how I feel about something, I learn something else that changes my mind. I just feel like I don't have enough wisdom about myself as a person yet to go out there and say to 20 million followers on Twitter, and these people on Facebook, and whoever else is reading whatever interview I do, "Vote for this person." I know who I'm going to vote for, but I don't think that it's important for me to say it, because it will influence people one way or another. And I just want to make sure that every public decision I make is an educated one.
I do think about it. There's not really one day that goes by that my life isn't documented somewhere. I live in a world where I know for a fact that my grandkids will get to Google what I wore today. It's a strange dilemma because it puts an amount of pressure on your every move that other 22-year-olds don't necessarily have to think about. In the grand scheme of things, I'm living a life. ... I know I'm going to make mistakes. I'm just going to try to handle those mistakes as a good person. The perception of you is going to change daily when you do what I do, but I just want to end up knowing in my heart that I did that right thing and tried my best, and if you mess up, hopefully it teaches you something.Radio.com: You’ve made clear that this is the Taylor Swift pop album. Did you know before you started that this was going to be a different kind of record for you, or did that emerge once you were working?
Taylor Swift: I had a few goals going into it. I wanted it to be a sonically cohesive album, and it ended up really being the first I’ve done since Fearless. I also wanted the songs to sound exactly how the emotions felt. I know that’s pretty vague, so I really didn’t know where it was going to go, but I knew that I wanted to work with the collaborators I had such crazy electricity with on Red, like Max Martin. I wanted to do some things that sounded nothing like what we had done before.
I like making records in a two-year process, because you generally throw out most of what you write the first year, because those are too similar to what you had done before. And then at some point after that, it becomes a sound, it gets dialed in. I realized that I was being inspired by these ‘80s synth-pop elements, so I came up with the title 1989 and clued in everyone that that’s what I was going for, and made sure I was working with a really close team that was up to that.
I think there’s an emotional undercurrent that expresses how my life has changed priority-wise. There’s nothing overt, nothing that comes out and says “I only care about my girlfriends now, and I don’t need a man to make me happy.” It’s just the idea that right now I’m thrilled, excited, fascinated by things other than boys.
The most interesting thing about meeting my fans now is that they say, “I’ve been listening to your music for eight years—I was in middle school and now I’m in college, and it’s like you’re my older sister and we’ve grown up together.” I’m not trying to be one of them if they’re fifteen, not trying to act like them or dress like them. I do feel more like a big sister, and they ask me for advice and I try to give it to them, whether that’s in an Instagram comment or in a song. The relationship has morphed, changed, and I think as long as I keep telling them an honest narrative of my life, they’ll keep subscribing.
These playbacks have been the most exciting, fun thing I’ve done. It never occurred to me before to play an album for my fans before it came out. I just think my excitement level is so high this time. I wanted them to be in a comfortable, fun scenario, and to feel like they were special—because they are, everybody there is hand-picked. Whether they run a blog about me but never met me, or they came to nine shows and waited for me outside the stage door, I wanted to single those people out and get them together.
It’s been so much fun, so educational, to see which songs they’re obsessing over. I wasn’t expecting them to gravitate to the last track on the album, a song called “Clean” that I did with Imogen Heap, but so far, that one really seems to hit them the hardest. You see things come out of the woodwork like that and it’s a real surprise.
I guess either the shirt with the eagles that I’m wearing on the album cover, or else one of the looks from the “Shake It Off” video. That definitely gives you some options.Why did you leave Spotify? I'm in an office of people who are upset they can't stream your music.
Well, they can still listen to my music if they get it on iTunes. I'm always up for trying something. And I tried it and I didn't like the way it felt. I think there should be an inherent value placed on art. I didn't see that happening, perception-wise, when I put my music on Spotify. Everybody's complaining about how music sales are shrinking, but nobody's changing the way they're doing things. They keep running towards streaming, which is, for the most part, what has been shrinking the numbers of paid album sales.
Everything We Know About Lorde's Upcoming Album Release
With Beats Music and Rhapsody you have to pay for a premium package in order to access my albums. And that places a perception of value on what I've created. On Spotify, they don't have any settings, or any kind of qualifications for who gets what music. I think that people should feel that there is a value to what musicians have created, and that's that. I wrote about this in July, I wrote an op-ed piece in the Wall Street Journal. This shouldn't be news right now. It should have been news in July when I went out and stood up and said I'm against it. And so this is really kind of an old story.
What was the goal of your new album, 1989?
With 1989, I was really putting my neck on the line, because I was the one saying I need to change directions musically. And my label and management were the ones saying "Are you sure, are you positive? This is risky." And I was the one who had to come back every time and say, "No, this is what we're doing." When I put forth an album cover that didn't have half my face on it, and tried to convince my label that this was the best way to sell an album, you know, I got some kind of interesting side-glance looks. But I knew that this was the best cover to represent this record, because I wanted there to be an air of mystery. I didn't want people to know the emotional DNA of this album. I didn't want them to see a smiling picture on the cover and think this was a happy album, or see a sad-looking facial expression and think, oh, this is another breakup record. When I wanted to call the album 1989, people on the team questioned that. Every single element of this album has been called into question, and I've had to say "No, this is how we're doing it." And the fact that we came out and did the kind of numbers we did in the first week—you have no idea how relieved I was, because it was all on me if this didn't work. It was a little hard to sleep the night of the album release.
There's a song on my album called "All You Had to Do Was Stay." I was having this dream, that was actually one of those embarrassing dreams, where you're mortified in the dream, you're like humiliated. In the dream, my ex had come to the door to beg for me to talk to him or whatever, and I opened up the door and I went to go say, "Hi," or "What are you doing here?" or something—something normal—but all that came out was this high-pitched singing that said, "Stay!" It was almost operatic. So I wrote this song, and I used that sound in the song. Weird, right? I woke up from the dream, saying the weird part into my phone, figuring I had to include it in something because it was just too strange not to. In pop, it's fun to play around with little weird noises like that.
I am in love with catchy melodies and hooks that are stuck in your head for days, and ideally weeks, and even months. I really love it when I hear a song, and all of a sudden, my next two weeks are spent trying to figure out how to get that song out of my head. I think there's a way to artfully do it. I want people to have songs that I write stuck in their heads, but I don't want it to absolutely perturb them that they have the song stuck in their head. I'm talking about songs that sound like they were cooked up in a lab. Like, anything that makes you think there are eight songwriters on this.
A question about "Shake It Off," the lead single: I had never read someone saying you stay out too late.
Oh, that was just a good first line. Yeah.
What does writing a song do for you?
I see a lot of celebrities build up these emotional walls around themselves, where they let no one in, and that's what makes them feel very lonely at the top. I just keep writing songs. And I kind of stay open to feeling humiliated and rejected, because before being a quote-unquote celebrity, I'm a songwriter. Being a celebrity means you lock your doors and close your windows and don't let people in. Being a songwriter means you're very attuned to your own intuition and your own feelings even if they hurt.
So I approach it much more from a songwriter's perspective. But I do know how to pull myself out now, from that constant, never-ending, bottomless rabbithole of self-doubt and fear. I've been able to write songs and feel better. They clarify and simplify the emotions that you're feeling. Nothing you do is going to make the pain stop. It just helps to have it clarified and simplified.
Is there someone you look to as a model of where you’d like your career to go? Are there women you look up to?
We're taught to find examples for the way we want our lives to wind up. But I can't find anyone, really, who's had the same career trajectory as mine. So when I'm in an optimistic place I hope that my life won't match anyone else's life trajectory, either, going forward. I do have female role models in the sense of actresses like Mariska Hargitay. I think she has a beautiful life, and an incredible career, and I think she's built that for herself. She's one of the highest paid actresses—actors in general, women or men—on television, and she's been playing this very strong female character for, what, 15 years now, something like that. And Ina Garten, the Barefoot Contessa. I really love her business, and how she sticks to who she is, and how people relate to it. In other industries, I have female role models. I just struggle to find a woman in music who hasn't been completely picked apart by the media, or scrutinized and criticized for aging, or criticized for fighting aging—it just seems to be much more difficult to be a woman in music and to grow older. I just really hope that I will choose to do it as gracefully as possible.
Is it a struggle, being a role model for so many young women while trying to produce something artistically valid?
I don't find a struggle with that balance, being looked at as a role model, because I think it's a very obvious and natural thing for people to see you as, when you're a singer. I've always felt very comfortable with it, for some reason. That in particular hasn't been one of my struggles. I've struggled with a lot of things, but the idea that you're living your life and it's impacting other people, some of whom are very young, some of whom are in their most impressionable times and they're discovering the music that tells them how they are going to live their lives and how they should feel and how it's acceptable to feel, I think that that's kind of exciting.
Listen to Kanye West Romantic 17-Minute New Slow Jam
But it's the same thing as living your life based on what your grandkids will say one day. I'm sure there will be things that my grandkids make fun of me for no matter what, but I'd really rather it be, "Look how awkward your dancing was in the 'Shake It Off' video! You look so weird, Grandma!" rather than "Grandma, is that your nipple?" I don't make it as much about the millions of people who would be disappointed if I were to have some sort of meltdown or scandal or something that made everyone feel like my character wasn't what they thought it was. I think more about the people in my life that would disappoint: my mom, my dad, my kids, if I ever have them. And that way it's not as much pressure as thinking about the millions of little minds that you must be shaping. I'm trying to live my life with some sort of thoughtfulness put into my actions, but it's not because I feel like I'm the president of the International Babysitters Club.
Does it annoy you when people say you don't write your own songs, or that someone else is pulling the strings of your career?
I haven't heard any of the people I respect in the music industry or in journalism, saying that they think I don't write my own songs. I think, when I put out Speak Now, which was my third album, and I decided I was just going to write it entirely on my own, to me that was enough of a statement. I felt like I could move on from that. I felt like I had proved my point. That was when I felt free to collaborate with whoever I wanted, because if you actually listen to the music, you can tell that the lyrics are written by the same person. And it's not a ghostwriter. It's not some weird, you know—everyone's got those weird Shakespeare theories that someone else did all his stuff for him. Not to ever compare yourself to Shakespeare. But people need to poke holes in things because of their own stuff. It's not about me.
And we all know it's a feminist issue. My friend Ed [Sheeran], no one questions whether he writes everything. In the beginning, I liked to think that we were all on the same playing field. And then it became pretty obvious to me that when you have people sort of questioning the validity of a female songwriter, or making it seem like it's somehow unacceptable to write songs about your real emotions—that it somehow makes you irrational and overemotional—seeing that over the years changed my view. It's a little discouraging that females have to work so much harder to prove that they do their own things. I see Nicki Minaj and Iggy Azalea having to prove that they write their own raps or their own lyrics, and it makes me sad, because they shouldn't have to justify it.
As a female celebrity, having your body picked over, in a way that doesn't happen for male celebrities—how do you deal?
I refuse to buy into these comparisons, because you don't see it happening to men. All you seem to see is "Which New Mother Is Sexier?" "Who's the Hotter Mama?" "Who's Got The Better Booty?" If we continue to show young girls that they are being compared to other girls, we're doing ourselves a huge disservice as a society. I surround myself with smart, beautiful, passionate, driven, ambitious women. Other women who are killing it should motivate you, thrill you, challenge you and inspire you rather than threaten you and make you feel like you're immediately being compared to them. The only thing I compare myself to is me, two years ago, or me one year ago. How does 1989 measure up to Red, sales-wise? You just try to lead by example, and you hope, someday, that if we talk about feminism enough, maybe we'll start to actually see it make a difference in the way young girls perceive themselves and each other.
Does it annoy you to have photographers everywhere you go? Are you at risk of becoming a shut-in?
Yeah, every outing is documented. So any outing I've been on, you've seen photos of. Any other time, I'm at home. Or I have my friends over and we cook dinner and talk and sit on the roof and laugh about things and gossip and whatever.
It's honestly like, if I'm in the mood to be held accountable for every single article of clothing on my body, and whether it matches, and if it clashes, and if it's on trend, then I go out. But if I'm not interested in undergoing that kind of debate and conversation—regarding how I'm walking, whether I look tired, how my makeup is right, what's that mark on my knee, did you hurt yourself?—I just don't go out. I try to evaluate whether I'm in the right emotional space to deal with that, and if I'm not, then I just stay in. And I'm perfectly happy staying in.
What do you have planned for the tour?
I know that with the way the fans have latched onto this album, the setlist will be predominantly songs from 1989. You know, when I go back and play songs I know they want to hear, like "Love Story" or "Trouble," it'll be interesting to reimagine them so that the fans get a new experience that feels in keeping with 1989. But I'm so excited. I have so many things I've been dreaming up for this.
Jennifer Lopez Could Barely Contain Her Excitement for This Concert Proposal
If you look at the makeup of my previous music, as far as production elements go, there are a lot of live drums, acoustic guitars, electric guitars, and live bass. And if you look at the landscape of 1989, it's mostly synths and automated drums and these kind of big epic synth pad sounds, and key bass, and layered vocals. I have a very big band, there are, what, 14 of us, so what you're going to end up with is more of a live feel in that it's going to be filled in and more dramatic with more layers to it, but never to the point where it's going to feel noisy or overcrowded. The music on this tour is going to live a little bit in that world, and thank God, my fans really seem to like that world.
The challenge with a stadium show is making those people in the very top row feel like they got an intimate, personal experience. On the Red tour we achieved that sense of intimacy by having acoustic moments, and moments where I was telling stories about these songs. I don't like to scream at the audience, I like to talk to them.
I really like for there to be something theatrical about what we do on stage. When I was younger, I was just obsessed with Broadway shows. As much as I can show these audiences an element of that theatrical nature to a performance, I think that it allows them to escape from their lives a little bit more. So when you have a show like that it's very difficult to change up the setlist every night. I keep the setlist pretty much intact, but we have little variables—I usually do different acoustic songs every night. In the past, I have brought out dozens of guest artists not to perform my songs but to perform their songs and I'll take a verse. And those are the things that make me the happiest, because the reality of the situation is that most of the kids in the audience have YouTubed the entire concert before they got there. They know exactly what's going to happen next unless I call up another artist and have a secret rehearsal soundcheck and surprise the crowd with something they genuinely weren't expecting. I should be getting on that now, look into a booking agent for these things.
But it's worth it because I really want them to have that genuine moment of surprise. It's very rare in this day and age to surprise people, but I really like doing it.
Do you have a dream onstage guest?
I love Iggy Azalea, I love Haim. I'd say Vance Joy, but he's opening up the tour, so he'll be there anyway. The things that I try to really focus on when bringing out people as surprise guests is what do my fans really want to see, what would they lose their minds over? Not to show too many of my cards here—but I have probably 10 guests that I'm thinking about that would be amazing. But you know, these have to be artists that would get up there and play for the love of playing, because they're not paid for being there, and they usually have to switch up their schedules. The people who have done it in the past—it's been astonishing to me, because it's been Nicki Minaj, and Usher, and T.I., these huge artists who could be anywhere else. And you can tell who loves playing live if they're willing to come and play for free on one of my stadium shows.
Is there a singular moment from touring that sent your endorphin levels higher than they'd ever been before?
There are moments that happen live where you get to see humanity do what they're going to do, and you can't ever anticipate what they're going to do. I played a stadium right outside of Boston a couple years ago. It was outdoor, perfect, clear weather forecast. And in the middle of the show, a torrential downpour starts. In my head, the first thing I'm thinking is, Everyone's going to leave. We're seven songs into this show, and they're going to leave. I'm going to be playing to no one. And it's going to look just like my nightmares look. But instead of leaving, they just danced. They all danced in the rain together, and I still, years later, have people come up to me in public, at some restaurant or wherever they run into me, and they'll say, "I was at the show where it rained. I was at the Rain Show." And I know exactly what they're talking about, because we have these moments and these memories that bond us, like the time I looked out there and saw everyone dancing, when it was the complete opposite of what I thought they were going to do, and it's those moments of human interaction that happen on tour that you can't get just watching a song climb the charts, sitting in your house.
You recently moved to New York. Are you a Knicks fan now?
Yeah, totally.
You realize they're not very good.
I love them, though. Why does that matter? So you run into a bunch of different, interesting types of people at the Met Ball. I've gone the last four years. And the most normal people at that event, every single time, are Amar'e Stoudemire and his wife Alexis. I talk with them and hang with them every time I'm there. So I've always had this sort of love of the Knicks, just because Amar'e is so cool. And also I performed at the Knicks'—at Madison Square Garden's—Kids Talent Competition at halftime when I was 12 or 13. And ever since then I've had this kind of sparkly, magical opinion of Madison Square Garden and the Knicks, since they let me sing when I was a little kid.A LOT OF YOUR SONGS ARE ABOUT RELATIONSHIPS THAT DIDN'T WORK OUT. WHAT ADVICE WOULD YOU GIVE TO OTHER GIRLS WHO ARE GOING THROUGH HEARTBREAK?
Your feelings so are important to write down, to capture, and to remember because today you're heartbroken, but tomorrow you'll be in love again. And you'll appreciate it more when you can go back and read your journal and realize that the happiness you have is special because yesterday, you cried. I'm so lucky that I get to look at journals from when I was 13 and wanted [a singing career] so bad, but never thought that I would be able to have it, or to get to be on the cover of CosmoGirl.
SO YOU DIDN'T EXPECT SUCCESS?
No! The reason I was so driven was that I didn't expect that anything would just happen for me. But that doubt fueled me to work harder. My attitude was the opposite of people who are like, "It's gonna happen for me. It's gonna happen for me." My mantra was always, "It's not gonna happen for me. Go out and play that show or it won't happen." You know? I never expected anything to be given to me.
NOW THAT YOU'VE BECOME SO SUCCESSFUL, WHAT MAKES YOU HAPPY?
What makes me happy is just curling up in with my mom in her bed and watching a marathon of CSI and Grey's Anatomy episodes with pints of ice cream. It's amazing when we get to do that. I think that what people always want is what they don't have a lot of, and the thing that I haven't had a lot of lately is getting to curl up in bed and watch a marathon of my favorite shows!
YOU'VE TALKED ABOUT HOW ALL OF YOUR FRIENDS IN MIDDLE SCHOOL DESERTED YOU ONE DAY. HOW DID THAT AFFECT THE PERSON YOU ARE NOW?
I think the tiniest little thing can change the course of your day, which can change the course of your year, which can change who you are. I'm not quite sure how it affected me to lose all my friends and have to walk into school and go at it alone, but I can only hope that it made me a stronger person. And I got to write songs about it — my first songs were written because of trying to deal with that emotion. I will never be able to thank those people enough because it's like, you can't write a song if you're not feeling anything, and sometimes, even though you have to be feeling pain, it's worth it in the end. But it's so funny because even when I go back to high school now, when I go back to functions like a football game or a band concert or something like that, it doesn't matter how many people come up and ask me for my autograph, if I see like one of those popular people, I still feel like my hair is frizzy and people are looking at me.
YOU'RE KNOWN FOR BEING CAREER-FOCUSED AND NOT PARTYING. DO YOU CONSCIOUSLY TRY TO STAY AWAY FROM THAT SCENE?
No, I'm just being myself. I'm not a party girl at this point in my life. It's not a priority for me. I have to get up early and do interviews and I have to sing every night. I don't have any interest in going out to clubs right now. I love people, and I love socializing, I just don't have any interest in being drunk. I don't worry about [people who say I'm too much of a good girl] because the people who say that, it's like, wow, you are really trying to find something you don't like about me. And, honestly, if somebody wants to criticize me for not being a trainwreck, that's fine with me!Who better to get to the heart of the phenomenon that is Taylor Swift than one of her besties? For ELLE's June Women in Music Issue cover story, Tavi Gevinson sat down with Swift to talk about matters of the head, heart, and everything in between. Pick up the June issue on newsstands nationwide on May 19 to read the entire interview. Below, check out a sneak peek of their conversation.
Since the age of 14, I have littered—excuse me, adorned—the Internet with Taylor Swift analyses. I was first struck by how much more agency she had over her songwriting and public image than other popular artists tapping into my demo, and by how it felt to get permission from a girl wielding a guitar to shamelessly express one's emotions, despite how often doing so can get you called "crazy" (that sexist euphemism for "feminine"). With the release of her fourth album, Red, in 2012 and a handful of highly publicized romances, Taylor was criticized by the press and other entertainers for such sinful acts as dating people and writing songs about it, gaining a reputation as boy-crazy and love-ridden. But I'd always felt that the men in her songs were mere catalysts for her own self-discovery. Last October she released 1989, and if you use the Internet or ever leave the house, you're familiar with its ubiquity. But I would like to draw attention to the secret message spelled out in the liner notes of "Clean," the final track: "She lost him but she found herself and somehow that was everything."
Taylor's first four albums have been certified platinum a combined 21 times, but despite her unprecedented success in country music, 1989 is strictly pop. The same woman who once landed a nonsingle called "Forever and Always" on the Top 40 charts now declares, in "Wildest Dreams," "Nothing lasts forever." Yet her storytelling and the attention to detail that she honed in country are what make her pop songs peerless. She's 25 now, and with her newfound perspective on romance's expiration date, she's also gained appreciation for the joy of a fling's impermanence, recovering from heartbreak, and reinventing oneself. "Find out what you want/Be that girl for a month" refers to the preferences of a lover in "Blank Space" but could just as well apply to her own evolution. 1989 debuted at number one on the Billboard 200 charts and sold almost 1.3 million copies in the first week. It was the top-selling album of 2014 and outsold her previous two albums in the U.S. after just 19 weeks in release.
Taylor and I first met in 2012, but you can't go over to a friend's apartment to make chili and be like, "But first, real quick: Is it 'Starbucks lovers'?" However, in the name of journalism, I talked to Taylor the morning of this year's Grammys at her house in L.A. about all of the above.
MICHAEL THOMPSON
On getting over a guy:
Tavi Gevinson: I want to ask you about "Clean." The girl singing is so sensible, with none of the impulsiveness of "Blank Space" or "Style."
Taylor Swift: "Shake It Off" and "Clean" were the last two things we wrote for the record, so it shows you where I ended up mentally. "Clean" I wrote as I was walking out of Liberty in London. Someone I used to date—it hit me that I'd been in the same city as him for two weeks and I hadn't thought about it. When it did hit me, it was like, Oh, I hope he's doing well. And nothing else. And you know how it is when you're going through heartbreak. A heartbroken person is unlike any other person. Their time moves at a completely different pace than ours. It's this mental, physical, emotional ache and feeling so conflicted. Nothing distracts you from it. Then time passes, and the more you live your life and create new habits, you get used to not having a text message every morning saying, "Hello, beautiful. Good morning." You get used to not calling someone at night to tell them how your day was. You replace these old habits with new habits, like texting your friends in a group chat all day and planning fun dinner parties and going out on adventures with your girlfriends, and then all of a sudden one day you're in London and you realize you've been in the same place as your ex for two weeks and you're fine. And you hope he's fine. The first thought that came to my mind was, I'm finally clean. I'd been in this media hailstorm of people having a very misconstrued perception of who I was. There were really insensitive jokes being made at awards shows by hosts; there were snarky headlines in the press—"Taylor Goes Through a Breakup: Well, That Was Swift!"—focusing on all the wrong things.
On happily ever after and what Lena Dunham has taught her about love:
TG: Can you tell me more about how the way you go about songwriting has changed?
: I'd never been in a relationship when I wrote my first couple of albums, so these were all projections of what I thought they might be like. They were based on movies and books and songs and literature that tell us that a relationship is the most magical thing that can ever happen to you. And then once I fell in love, or thought I was in love, and then experienced disappointment or it just not working out a few times, I realized there's this idea of happily ever after which in real life doesn't happen. There's no riding off into the sunset, because the camera always keeps rolling in real life. It's magical if you ask anyone who has ever fallen in love—it's the greatest. Now I have more of a grasp on the fact that when you're in a state of infatuation and you think everything that person does is perfect, it then—if you're lucky—morphs into a real relationship when you see that that person is not in fact perfect, but you still want to see them every day.
TG: That's why I love that the height of your song "You Are in Love" is the lyric: "You're my best friend." That's the best.
: Yeah. I've never had that, so I wrote that song about things that Lena [Dunham] has told me about her and Jack [Antonoff]. That's just basically stuff she's told me. And I think that that kind of relationship—God, it sounds like it would just be so beautiful—would also be hard. It would also be mundane at times.
TG: …I think that when people who've had success from a young age go through a train-wreck cycle, it's usually because they're working on someone else's terms, so they feel the need to rebel. But when it's something you've built, you don't have that same kind of resentment or angstiness. But it's also difficult to keep those standards for yourself. Do you ever really worry that you're going to accidentally say something inflammatory?
: Not necessarily. As far as the need to rebel against the idea of you, or the image of you: Like, I feel no need to burn down the house I built by hand. I can make additions to it. I can redecorate. But I built this. And so I'm not going to sit there and say, "Oh, I wish I hadn't had corkscrew-curly hair and worn cowboy boots and sundresses to awards shows when I was 17; I wish I hadn't gone through that fairy-tale phase where I just wanted to wear princess dresses to awards shows every single time." Because I made those choices. I did that. It was part of me growing up. It wasn't some committee going, "You know what Taylor needs to be this year?" And so with 1989, I feel like we gave the entire metaphorical house I built a complete renovation and it made me love the house even more—but still keeping the foundation of what I've always been.It feels like a perfect night to dress up like hipsters
And make fun of our exes, uh uh, uh uh.
It feels like a perfect night for breakfast at midnight
To fall in love with strangers, uh uh, uh uh.
Yeah,
We're happy, free, confused, and lonely at the same time
It's miserable and magical.
Oh, yeah
Tonight's the night when we forget about the deadlines
It's time
Uh oh!
I don't know about you
But I'm feeling 22
Everything will be alright
If you keep me next to you
You don't know about me
But I'll bet you want to
Everything will be alright
If we just keep dancing like we're
22, ooh-ooh
22, ooh-ooh
It seems like one of those nights,
This place is too crowded.
Too many cool kids, uh uh, uh uh (who's Taylor Swift anyway, ew?)
It seems like one of those nights,
We ditch the whole scene and end up dreaming
Instead of sleeping.
Yeah,
We're happy, free, confused, and lonely in the best way
It's miserable and magical.
Oh, yeah
Tonight's the night when we forget about the heartbreaks
It's time
Uh oh! (hey!)
I don't know about you
But I'm feeling 22
Everything will be alright
If you keep me next to you
You don't know about me
But I'll bet you want to
Everything will be alright (alright)
If we just keep dancing like we're
22, ooh-ooh (oh, oh, oh)
22, ooh-ooh
I don't know about you
22, ooh-ooh
22, ooh-ooh
It feels like one of those nights,
We ditch the whole scene.
It feels like one of those nights,
We won't be sleeping.
It feels like one of those nights,
You look like bad news.
I gotta have you,
I gotta have you.
Ooh-ooh
Ooh-ooh, ye-e-e-e-eah, hey
I don't know about you (I don't know about you)
But I'm feeling 22
Everything will be alright
If you keep me next to you
You don't know about me (you don't know about me)
But I'll bet you want to
Everything will be alright
If we just keep dancing like we're
ooh-ooh
ooh-ooh
ooh-ooh, yeah, yeah
ooh-ooh, yeah, yeah, yeah
It feels like one of those nights,
We ditch the whole scene
It feels like one of those nights,
We won't be sleeping
It feels like one of those nights,
You look like bad news,
I gotta have you,
I gotta have you.
Seems the only one who doesn't see your beauty
Is the face in the mirror looking back at you
You walk around here thinking you're not pretty
But that's not true, cause I know you...
Hold on, baby, you're losing it
The water's high, you're jumping into it
And letting go... and no one knows
That you cry, but you don't tell anyone
That you might not be the golden one
And you're tied together with a smile
But you're coming undone
I guess it's true that love was all you wanted
Cause you're giving it away like it's extra change
Hoping it will end up in his pocket
But he leaves you out like a penny in the rain
Oh, cause it's not his price to pay
Not his price to pay...
You're tied together with a smile
But you're coming undone... oh
Goodbye, baby
With a smile, baby, babyCory's eyes are like a jungle
He smiles, it's like the radio
He whispers songs into my window
In words that nobody knows
There's pretty girls on every corner
That watch him as he's walking home
Saying, "Does he know?"
Will you ever know?
You're beautiful
Every little piece love,
And don't you know
You're really gonna be someone,
Ask anyone.
And when you find everything you looked for
I hope your life lead you back to my door
Oh, but if it don't,
Stay beautiful
Cory finds another way to be
The highlight of my day
I'm taking pictures in my mind
So I can save them for a rainy day
It's hard to make a conversation
When he's taking my breath away
I should say, hey, by the way...
If you and I are a story
That never gets told
If what you are is a daydream
I'll never get to hold,
At least you'll know...
You're beautiful
Every little piece love,
And don't you know
You're really gonna be someone,
Ask anyone.
And when you find everything you looked for,
I hope your life lead you back to my front door.
Oh, but if it don't
Will you stay
Beautiful, beautiful, beautiful
Beautiful, beautiful, beautiful
La la la
Oh, oh, oh, oh,
Oh, but if it don't,
Stay beautiful
Stay beautiful
Na, na, na, na, na
It's strange to think the songs we used to sing
The smiles, the flowers, everything is gone
Yesterday I found out about you
Even now just looking at you feels wrong
You say that you'd take it all back, given one chance
It was a moment of weakness and you said, "Yes."
You should've said "No", you should've gone home
You should've thought twice 'fore you let it all go
You should've known that word, with what you did with her,
Get back to me (get back to me).
And I should've been there in the back of your mind
I shouldn't be asking myself, "Why?"
You shouldn't be begging for forgiveness at my feet...
You should've said "No", baby, and you might still have me
You can see that I've been crying
Baby, you know all the right things to say
But do you honestly expect me to believe
We could ever be the same?
You say that the past is the past, you need one chance
It was a moment of weakness and you said, "Yes."
I can't resist
Before you go, tell me this:
Was it worth it?
Was she worth this?
No... no, no, no...She said, I was seven and you were nine
I looked at you like the stars that shined
In the sky, the pretty lights
And our daddies used to joke about the two of us
Growing up and falling in love and our mamas smiled
And rolled their eyes and said oh my my my
Take me back to the house in the backyard tree
Said you'd beat me up, you were bigger than me
You never did, you never did
Take me back when our world was one block wide
I dared you to kiss me and ran when you tried
Just two kids, you and I...
Oh my my my my
Well, I was sixteen when suddenly
I wasn't that little girl you used to see
But your eyes still shined like pretty lights
And our daddies used to joke about the two of us
They never believed we'd really fall in love
And our mamas smiled and rolled their eyes
And said oh my my my...
Take me back to the creek beds we turned up
Two A.M. riding in your truck and all I need is you next to me
Take me back to the time we had our very first fight
The slamming of doors instead of kissing goodnight
You stayed outside till the morning light
Oh my my my my
A few years had gone and come around
We were sitting at our favorite spot in town
And you looked at me, got down on one knee
Take me back to the time when we walked down the aisle
Our whole town came and our mamas cried
You said I do and I did too
Take me home where we met so many years before
We'll rock our babies on that very front porch
After all this time, you and I
I'll be eighty-seven; you'll be eighty-nine
I'll still look at you like the stars that shine
In the sky, oh my my my...I was riding shotgun
With my hair undone
In the front seat of his car
He's got a one-hand feel
On the steering wheel
The other on my heart
I look around, turn the radio down
He says, "Baby is something wrong?"
I say, "Nothing.
I was just thinking
How we don't have a song."
And he says...
Our song is the slamming screen door,
Sneakin' out late, tapping on your window
When we're on the phone and you talk real slow
'Cause it's late and your mama don't know
Our song is the way you laugh
The first date: "Man, I didn't kiss her, when I should have."
And when I got home ... 'fore I said, "Amen."
Asking God if he could play it again
I was walking up
The front porch steps
After everything that day
Had gone all wrong
And been trampled on
And lost and thrown away
Got to the hallway,
Well, on my way
To my lovin' bed
I almost didn't notice
All the roses
And the note that said,..
Our song is the slamming screen door,
Sneakin' out late, tapping on your window
When we're on the phone and you talk real slow
'Cause it's late and your mama don't know
Our song is the way you laugh
The first date: "Man, I didn't kiss her, when I should have."
And when I got home ... 'fore I said, "Amen."
Asking God if he could play it again
I've heard every album, listened to the radio
Waited for something to come along
That was as good as our song...
'Cause our song is the slamming screen door,
Sneakin' out late, tapping on his window
When we're on the phone and he talks real slow
'Cause it's late and his mama don't know
Our song is the way he laughs
The first date: "Man, I didn't kiss him, when I should have."
And when I got home ... 'fore I said, "Amen."
Asking God if he could play it again
Play it again
Oh, yeah...
Oh-oh, yeah.
I was riding shotgun
With my hair undone
In the front seat of his car
I grabbed a pen
And an old napkin
And I wrote down our songFriday night beneath the stars,
in a field behind your yard,
you and I are paintin' pictures in the sky.
And sometimes we don't say a thing;
just listen to the crickets sing.
Everything I need is right here by my side.
And I know everything about you
I don't wanna live without you.
I'm only up when you're not down.
Don't wanna fly if you're still on the ground.
It's like no matter what I do.
Well you drive me crazy half the time;
the other half I'm only trying to let you know that what I feel is true.
And I'm only me when I'm with you.
Just a small town boy and girl
livin' in a crazy world.
Tryin' to figure out what is and isn't true.
And I don't try to hide my tears.
The secrets or my deepest fears.
Through it all nobody gets me like you do.
And you know everything about me.
You say that you can't live without me.
When I'm with anybody else it's so hard to be myself.
Only you can tell.
That I'm only up when you're not down.
Don't wanna fly if you're still on the ground.
It's like no matter what I do.
Well you drive me crazy half the time;
the other half I'm only trying to let you know that what I feel is true.
And I'm only me
Who I wanna be
Well, I'm only me when I'm with you
With you
Uh huh
YeahShe can’t see the way your eyes
Light up when you smile.
She’ll never notice how you stop and stare
Whenever she walks by.
And you can’t see me wantin' you the way you want her
But you are everything to me.
I just wanna show you
She don’t even know you,
She's never gonna love you like I want to.
And you just see right through me.
If you only knew me
We could be a beautiful
Miracle,
Unbelievable
Instead of just invisible.
There’s a fire inside of you
That can’t help but shine through.
She’s never gonna see the light
No matter what you do.
And all I think about is how to make you think of me
And everything that we could be
Like shadows in a faded light
Oh, we’re invisible.
I just wanna open your eyes
And make you realize.
I just wanna show you
She don’t even know you.
Baby, let me love you,
Let me want you.
You just see right through me
But if you only knew me
We could be a beautiful
Miracle,
Unbelievable
Instead of just invisible.
She can’t see the way your eyes
Light up when you smile.Why would you wanna break a perfectly good heart?
Why would you wanna take our love and tear it all apart,now?
Why would you wanna make the very first scar?
Why would you wanna break a perfectly good heart?
Maybe I should've seen the signs, should've read the writing on the wall.
And realized by the distance in your eyes that I would be the one to fall.
No matter what you say, I still can't believe
That you would walk away.
It don't make sense to me, but:
Why would you wanna break a perfectly good heart?
Why would you wanna take our love and tear it all apart, now?
Why would you wanna make the very first scar?
Why would you wanna break a perfectly good heart?
It's not unbroken anymore.
How do I get it back the way it was before?
Why would you wanna break a perfectly good heart?
Why would you wanna take our love and tear it all apart,now?
Why would you wanna make the very first scar?
Why would you wanna break, would you wanna break a:
Why would you wanna break a perfectly good heart?
Why would you wanna take our love and tear it all apart, now?
Why would you wanna make the very first scar?
Why would you wanna break a perfectly good heart?Last Christmas I gave you my heart
But the very next day, you gave it away
This year, to save me from tears
I'll give it to someone special
Once bitten and twice shied
I keep my distance but you still catch my eye
Tell me baby
Do you recognize me
Well, it's been a year, it doesn't surprise me
Merry Christmas, I wrapped it up and sent it
With a note saying 'I love you', I meant it
Now I know what a fool I've been
But if you kiss me now, I know you'd fool me again
Last Christmas I gave you my heart
But the very next day, you gave it away
This year, to save me from tears
I'll give it to someone special
Last Christmas I gave you my heart
But the very next day, you gave it away
This year, to save me from tears
I'll give it to someone special
A crowded room and friends with tired eyes
I'm hiding from you and your soul of ice
My God, I thought you were someone to rely on
Me, I guess I was a shoulder to cry on
A face on a lover with a fire in his heart
A girl on a cover but you tore her apart
Maybe this year
Maybe this year I'll give it to someone special
Cause last Christmas I gave you my heart
But the very next day, you gave it away
This year, to save me from tears
I'll give it to someone special
Last Christmas I gave you my heart
But the very next day, you gave it away
This year, to save me from tears
I'll give it to someone special
And last Christmas
And this year
It won't be anything like, anything like
Last Christmas I gave you my heart
But the very next day, you gave it away
This year, to save me from tears
I'll give it to someone specialPlease take down the misletoe
Cause I don't wanna think about that right now
Cause everything I want is miles away
In a snow covered little town
My momma's in the kitchen, worrying about me
Season's greetings, hope you're well
Well I'm doing alright
If you were wondering
Lately I can never tell
I know this shouldn't be a lonely time
But there were Christmases when you were mine
I've been doing fine without you, really
Up until the nights got cold
And everybody's here, except you, baby
Seems like everyone's got someone to hold
But for me it's just a lonely time
Cause there were Christmases when you were mine
Merry Christmas everybody
That'll have to be something I just say this year
I'll bet you got your mom another sweater
And were your cousins late again
When you were putting up the lights this year
Did you notice one less pair of hands
I know this shouldn't be a lonely time
But there were Christmases when I didn't wonder how you are tonight
Cause there were Christmases when you were mine
You were mineI walked through the door with you, the air was cold,
But something 'bout it felt like home somehow.
And I left my scarf there at your sister's house,
And you've still got it in your drawer even now.
Oh, your sweet disposition and my wide-eyed gaze.
We're singing in the car, getting lost Upstate.
Autumn leaves falling down like pieces into place,
And I can picture it after all these days.
And I know it's long gone,
And that magic's not here no more,
And I might be okay,
But I'm not fine at all.
'Cause there we are again on that little town street.
You almost ran the red 'cause you were looking over at me.
Wind in my hair, I was there, I remember it all too well.
Photo album on the counter, your cheeks were turning red.
You used to be a little kid with glasses in a twin sized bed
And your mother's telling stories about you on a tee ball team
You taught me 'bout your past, thinking your future was me.
And I know it's long gone
And there was nothing else I could do
And I forget about you long enough
To forget why I needed to...
'Cause there we are again in the middle of the night.
We're dancing around the kitchen in the refrigerator light
Down the stairs, I was there, I remember it all too well, yeah.
Well, maybe we got lost in translation, maybe I asked for too much,
But maybe this thing was a masterpiece 'til you tore it all up.
Running scared, I was there, I remember it all too well.
Hey, you call me up again just to break me like a promise.
So casually cruel in the name of being honest.
I'm a crumpled up piece of paper lying here
'Cause I remember it all, all, all... too well.
Time won't fly, it's like I'm paralyzed by it
I'd like to be my old self again, but I'm still trying to find it
After plaid shirt days and nights when you made me your own
Now you mail back my things and I walk home alone
But you keep my old scarf from that very first week
'Cause it reminds you of innocence and it smells like me
You can't get rid of it 'cause you remember it all too well, yeah
'Cause there we are again, when I loved you so
Back before you lost the one real thing you've ever known
It was rare, I was there, I remember it all too well
Wind in my hair, you were there, you remember it all
Down the stairs, you were there, you remember it all
It was rare, I was there, I remember it all too wellSanta baby, slip a sable under the tree, for me
I've been an awful good girl, santa baby
So hurry down the chimney tonight
Santa baby, a '54 convertible, too, light blue
Well I'll wait up for you, dear, santa baby
So hurry down the chimney tonight, yeah
Think of all the fun I've missed
Think of all the boys I haven't kissed
Next year I could be just as good
If you check off my Christmas list
Santa baby, I want a yacht and really that's not a lot
I've been an angel all year, santa baby
So hurry down the chimney tonight
Santa, honey, there's one more thing I really do need, the deed
To a platinum mine, santa honey
So hurry down the chimney tonight
Come and trim my Christmas tree
With some decorations bought at Tiffany's
I really do believe in you
Let's see if you believe in me
Santa baby, forgot to mention one little thing
A ring
And I don't mean on the phone, santa baby
So hurry down the chimney tonightSilent night, holy night
All is calm and all is bright
Round yon virgin mother and child
Holy infant so tender and mild
Sleep in heavenly peace
Sleep in heavenly peace
Silent night, holy night
Shepherds quake at the sight
Glories stream from Heaven afar
Heavenly hosts sing halleluia
Christ the savior is born
Christ our savior is born
Silent night, holy night
Son of God
Love's pure light
Radiant beams from thy holy face
With the dawn of redeeming grace
Jesus Lord at thy birth
Jesus Lord at thy birth
Halleluia!
Halleluia!
Halleluia!
Christ the savior is bornWhat if ribbons and bows didn't mean a thing?
Would the song still survive without five golden rings?
Would you still wanna kiss without mistletoe?
What would happen if God never let it snow?
What would happen if Christmas carols told a lie?
Tell me what would you find
You'd see that today holds something special
Something holy, not superficial
So here's to the birthday boy who saved our lives
It's something we all try to ignore
And put a wreath up on your door
So here's something you should know that is for sure
Christmas must be something more
What if angels did not pay attention to
All the things that we wished they would always do?
What if happiness came in a cardboard box?
Then I think there is something we all forgot
What would happen if presents all went away?
Tell me what would you find
You'd see that today holds something special
Something holy, not superficial
So here's to the birthday boy who saved our lives
It's something we all try to ignore
And put a wreath up on your door
So here's something you should know that is for sure
Christmas must be something more
We get so caught up in all of it
Business and relationships
Hundred mile an hour lives
And it's this time of year
And everybody's here
It seems the last thing on your mind
Is that the day holds something special
Something holy, not superficial?
So here's to Jesus Christ who saved our lives
It's something we all try to ignore
And put a wreath up on your door
But here's something you should know that is for sure
Christmas must be something
Christmas must be something
Christmas must be something more
There's gotta be more
There's gotta be moreI'm dreaming of a white Christmas
Just like the ones I used to know
Where the tree tops glisten and children listen
To hear sleigh bells in the snow
I'm dreaming of a white Christmas
With every Christmas card I write
May your days be merry and bright
And may all your Christmases be white
I'm dreaming of a white Christmas
Just like the ones I used to know
So may your days be merry and bright
And may all your Christmases be white
May your days be merry and bright
And may all your Christmases be whiteI like the way you sound in the morning
We're on the phone and without a warning
I realize your laugh is the best sound
I have ever heard
I like the way I can't keep my focus
I watch you talk, you didn't notice
I hear the words but all I can think is
We should be together
Every time you smile, I smile
And every time you shine, I'll shine for you
Whoa, oh, I'm feeling you baby
Don't be afraid to
Jump then fall
Jump then fall into me
Be there, never gonna leave you
Say that you wanna be with me too
So I'mma stay through it all
So jump then fall
Well, I like the way your hair falls in your face
You got the keys to me
I love each freckle on your face, oh
I've never been so wrapped up, honey
I like the way you're everything I ever wanted
I had time to think it all over
And all I can say is come closer
Take a deep breath then jump then fall into me
Cause Every time you smile, I smile
And every time you shine, I'll shine for you
Whoa, oh, I'm feeling you baby
Don't be afraid to
Jump then fall
Jump then fall into me
Be there, never gonna leave you
Say that you wanna be with me too
So I'mma stay through it all
So jump then fall
The bottom's gonna drop out from under our feet
I'll catch you, I'll catch you
And people say things that bring you to your knees
I'll catch you
The time is gonna come when you're so mad you could cry
But I'll hold you through the night until you smile
Whoa, oh, I need you baby
Don't be afraid, please,
Jump then fall
Jump then fall into me
Be there, never gonna leave you
Say that you wanna be with me too
So I'mma stay through it all
So jump then fall
Jump then fall, baby,
Jump then fall into me, into me
Every time you smile, I smile
And every time you shine, I shine
And every time you're here
Baby I'll show you, I'll show you
You can Jump then fall, jump then fall
Jump then fall into me, into me, yeahUntouchable like a distant diamond sky, Mmmm
I'm reaching out and I just can't tell you why
I'm caught up in you, I'm caught up in you
Untouchable, burning brighter than the sun
And when you're close I feel like coming undone
In the middle of the night
When I'm in this dream
It's like a million little stars
Spelling out your name
You gotta come on, come on
Say that we'll be together
Come on, come on
Little taste of Heaven
It's half full and I won't wait here all day
I know you're saying that you'll be here anyway
But you're untouchable
Burning brighter than the sun
Now that you're close I feel like coming undone
In the middle of the night
When I'm in this dream
It's like a million little stars
Spelling out your name
You gotta come on, come on
Say that we'll be together
Come on, come on
Oh, In the middle of the night
Waking from this dream
I wanna feel you by my side
Standing next to me
You gotta come on, come on
Say that we'll be together
Come on, come on
Little taste of Heaven
Oh, oh I'm caught up in you
Oh, oh, oh
Untouchable burning brighter than the sun
And when you're close I feel like coming undone
In the middle of the night
When I'm in this dream
It's like a million little stars
Spelling out your name
You gotta come on, come on
Say that we'll be together
Come on, come on, oh oh
Oh, Oh, In the middle of the night
Waking from this dream
I wanna feel you by my side
Standing next to me
You gotta come on, come on
Say that we'll be together
Come on, come on
Little taste of Heaven
Like a million little stars, spelling out your name
Spelling out your nameOnce upon a time
I believe it was a Tuesday when I caught your eye
And we caught onto something
I hold onto the night
You looked me in the eye and told me you loved me
Were you just kidding cause it seems to me
This thing is breaking down, we almost never speak
I don't feel welcome anymore
Baby, what happened, please tell me
Cause one second it was perfect
Now you're half way out the door
And I stare at the phone
He still hasn't called
And then you feel so low
You can't feel nothing at all
And you flashback to
When he said forever and always
Oh, and it rains in your bedroom
Everything is wrong
It rains when you're here
And it rains when you're gone
I was there when you said forever and always
Was I out of line?
Did I say something way too honest?
Made you run and hide like a scared little boy
I looked into your eyes
Thought I knew you for a minute now I'm not so sure
So here's to everything coming down to nothing
Here's to silence that cuts me to the core
Where is this going?
Thought I knew for a minute but I don't anymore
And I stare at the phone
He still hasn't called
And then you feel so low
You can't feel nothing at all
And you flashback to
When he said forever and always
And it rains in your bedroom
Everything is wrong
It rains when you're here
And it rains when you're gone
I was there when you said forever and always
You didn't mean it baby
I don't think so, oh oh oh
Back up, baby back up
Did you forget everything?
Back up, baby back up
Did you forget everything?
Back up, baby back up
Please back up, oh back up
Back up, baby back up
Cause it rains in your bedroom
Everything is wrong
It rains when you're here
And it rains when you're gone
I was there when you said forever and always
And I stare at the phone
He still hasn't called
And then you feel so low
You can't feel nothing at all
And you flashback to
When we said forever and always
Cause it rains in your bedroom
Everything is wrong
It rains when you're here
And it rains when you're gone
I was there when you said forever and always
You didn't mean it baby
You said forever and always, yeahI could go back to every laugh,
But I don't wanna' go there anymore,
And I know all the steps up to your door,
But I don't wanna' go there anymore.
Talk to the wind, talk to the sky,
Talk to the man with the reasons why,
And let me know what you find.
I’ll leave my window open,
‘Cause I’m too tired at night to call your name.
Just know I’m right here hopin’,
That you’ll come in with the rain.
I could stand up and sing you a song,
But I don’t wanna’ have to go that far.
And I, I’ve got you down,
I know you by heart,
And you don’t even know where I start.
Talk to yourself, talk to the tears,
Talk to the man who put you here,
And don’t wait for the sky to clear.
I’ll leave my window open,
‘Cus I’m too tired at night to call your name.
Oh, just know I’m right here hopin’,
That you’ll come in with the rain.
I’ve watched you so long,
Screamed your name,
I don’t know what else I can say.
But I’ll leave my window open,
‘Cus I’m too tired at night for all these games.
Just know I’m right here hopin’,
That you’ll come in with the rain.
I could go back to every laugh,
But I don’t wanna’ go there anymore…This is wrong but I can't help but feel like
There ain't nothing more right babe
Misty morning comes again and I can't
Help but wish I could see your face
And I knew from the first note played
I'd be breaking all my rules to see you
You smile that beautiful smile and
All the girls in the front row scream your name
So dim that spotlight, tell me things like
I can't take my eyes off of you
I'm no one special, just another
Wide eyed girl who's desperately in love with you
Give me a photograph to hang on my wall, superstar
Good morning loneliness, comes around when I'm not
Dreaming about you
When my world wakes up today
You'll be in another town
And I knew when I saw your face, I'd be
Counting down the ways to see you
You smile that beautiful smile and
All the girls in the front row scream your name
So dim that spotlight, tell me things like
I can't take my eyes off of you
I'm no one special, just another
Wide eyed girl who's desperately in love with you
Give me a photograph to hang on my wall, superstar
You played in bars, you play guitar
I'm invisible and everyone knows who you are
And you'll never see, sing me to sleep
Every night from the radio
So dim that spotlight, tell me things like
I can't take my eyes off of you
I'm no one special, just another
Wide eyed girl who's desperately in love with you
Give me a photograph to hang on my wall, superstar
Sweet, sweet superstar, superstar
In the heat of the fight I walked away
Ignoring words that you were saying
Trying to make me stay
I said, "This time I've had enough."
And you've called a hundred times
But I'm not picking up
'Cause I'm so mad I might tell you that it's over
But if you look a little closer
I said, "Leave," but all I really want is you
To stand outside my window throwing pebbles
Screaming, "I'm in love with you."
Wait there in the pouring rain, come back for more
And don't you leave 'cause I know
All I need is on the other side of the door
Me and my stupid pride are sitting here alone
Going through the photographs, staring at the phone
I keep going back over things we both said
And I remember the slamming door and all the things that I misread
So babe if you know everything, tell me why you couldn't see
When I left I wanted you to chase after me
Yeah, I said, "Leave," but all I really want is you
To stand outside my window throwing pebbles
Screaming, "I'm in love with you."
Wait there in the pouring rain, come back for more
And don't you leave 'cause I know
All I need is on the other side of the door
And I'll scream out the window
I can't even look at you
I don't need you but I do, I do, I do
I say, "There's nothing you can say to make this right again.
I mean it, I mean it."
What I mean is...
I said, "Leave," but baby all I want is you
To stand outside my window throwing pebbles
Screaming, "I'm in love with you."
Wait there in the pouring rain, come back for more
And don't you leave 'cause I know
All I need is on the other side of the door
With your face and the beautiful eyes
And the conversation with the little white lies
And the faded picture of a beautiful night
You carry me from your car up the stairs
And I broke down crying, was she worth this mess?
After everything and that little black dress
After everything I must confess, I need youWell, she was an American girl
Raised on promises
She couldn't help thinkin'
That there was a little more to life somewhere else
After all it was a great big world
With lots of places to run to
And if she had to die tryin'
She had one little promise she was gonna keep
O yeah, all right
Take it easy, baby
Make it last all night
She was an American girl
Well it was kind of cold that night,
She stood alone on her balcony
Yeah, she could hear the cars roll by,
Out on 441 like waves crashin' on the beach
And for one desperate moment
There he crept back in her memory
God it's so painful when something that's so close
Is still so far out of reach
O yeah, all right
Take it easy, baby
Make it last all night
She was an American girlThere's somethin' 'bout the way
The street looks when it's just rained
There's a glow off the pavement
You walk me to the car
And you know I wanna ask you to dance right there
In the middle of the parking lot
Yeah
Oh yeah
We're drivin' down the road
I wonder if you know
I'm tryin' so hard not to get caught up now
But you're just so cool
Run your hands through your hair
Absent-mindedly makin' me want you
And I don't know how it gets better than this
You take my hand and drag me head first
Fearless
And I don't know why but with you I'd dance in a storm in my best dress
Fearless
So, baby, drive slow
'Til we run out of road in this one horse town
I wanna stay right here in this passenger's seat
You put your eyes on me
In this moment now capture it, remember it
'Cause I don't know how it gets better than this
You take my hand and drag me head first
Fearless
And I don't know why but with you I'd dance in a storm in my best dress
Fearless
Well, you stood there with me in the doorway
My hands shake
I'm not usually this way
But you pull me in and I'm a little more brave
It's the first kiss,
It's flawless,
Really something,
It's fearless.
Oh yeah
'Cause I don't know how it gets better than this
You take my hand and drag me head first
Fearless
And I don't know why but with you I'd dance in a storm in my best dress
Fearless
'Cause I don't know how it gets better than this
You take my hand and drag me head first
Fearless
And I don't know why but with you I'd dance in a storm in my best dress
Fearless
Oh-oh
Oh yeahYou take a deep breath and you walk through the doors
It's the morning of your very first day
You say "Hi" to your friends you ain't seen in a while
Try and stay out of everybody's way
It's your freshman year and you're gonna be here
For the next four years in this town
Hoping one of those senior boys will wink at you and say,
"You know I haven't seen you around before."
'Cause when you're fifteen and somebody tells you they love you
You're gonna believe them
And when you're fifteen
Feeling like there's nothing to figure out
Well, count to ten, take it in
This is life before you know who you're gonna be
Fifteen
You sit in class next to a redhead named Abigail
And soon enough you're best friends
Laughing at the other girls who think they're so cool
We'll be out of here as soon as we can
And then you're on your very first date and he's got a car
And you're feeling like flying
And your mamma's waiting up and you're thinking he's the one
And you're dancing 'round your room when the night ends
When the night ends
'Cause when you're fifteen and somebody tells you they love you
You're gonna believe them
When you're fifteen
And your first kiss makes your head spin round
But in your life you'll do things greater than dating the boy on the football team
But I didn't know it at fifteen
When all you wanted was to be wanted
Wish you could go back and tell yourself what you know now
Back then I swore I was gonna marry him someday
But I realized some bigger dreams of mine
And Abigail gave everything she had to a boy who changed his mind
And we both cried
'Cause when you're fifteen and somebody tells you they love you
You're gonna believe them
And when you're fifteen
Don't forget to look before you fall
I've found time can heal most anything
And you just might find who you're supposed to be
I didn't know who I was supposed to be at fifteen
La, la, la, la, la, la, la
La, la, la, la, la, la, la
La, la, la, la, la, la, la
Your very first day
Take a deep breath, girl
Take a deep breath as you walk through the doors.We were both young when I first saw you.
I close my eyes and the flashback starts:
I'm standing there on a balcony in summer air.
See the lights, see the party, the ball gowns.
See you make your way through the crowd
And say, "Hello."
Little did I know...
That you were Romeo, you were throwing pebbles,
And my daddy said, "Stay away from Juliet."
And I was crying on the staircase
Begging you, "Please don't go."
And I said...
Romeo, take me somewhere we can be alone.
I'll be waiting; all that's left to do is run.
You'll be the prince and I'll be the princess,
It's a love story, baby, just say "Yes".
So I sneak out to the garden to see you.
We keep quiet 'cause we're dead if they knew
So close your eyes,
Escape this town for a little while.
Oh, oh.
'Cause you were Romeo, I was a scarlet letter,
And my daddy said, "Stay away from Juliet."
But you were everything to me,
I was begging you, "Please don't go."
And I said...
Romeo, take me somewhere we can be alone.
I'll be waiting; all that's left to do is run.
You'll be the prince and I'll be the princess.
It's a love story, baby, just say "Yes".
Romeo, save me. They're trying to tell me how to feel.
This love is difficult but it's real.
Don't be afraid, we'll make it out of this mess.
It's a love story, baby, just say "Yes".
Oh, oh, oh.
I got tired of waiting
Wondering if you were ever coming around.
My faith in you was fading
When I met you on the outskirts of town.
And I said...
Romeo, save me. I've been feeling so alone.
I keep waiting for you, but you never come.
Is this in my head? I don't know what to think.
He knelt to the ground and pulled out a ring and said...
Marry me, Juliet, you'll never have to be alone.
I love you, and that's all I really know.
I talked to your dad – go pick out a white dress
It's a love story, baby, just say "Yes".
Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh.
'Cause we were both young when I first saw youHey Stephen,
I know looks can be deceiving
But I know I saw a light in you.
And as we walked
We were talking –
I didn't say half the things I wanted to.
Of all the girls tossing rocks at your window
I'll be the one waiting there even when it's cold.
Hey Stephen,
Boy, you might have me believing
I don't always have to be alone.
'Cause I can't help it if you look like an angel,
Can't help it if I wanna kiss you in the rain.
So come feel this magic I've been feeling since I met you.
Can't help it if there's no one else.
Mmm, I can't help myself.
Hey Stephen,
I've been holding back this feeling.
So I've got some things to say to you, ha.
I seen it all –
So I thought –
But I never seen nobody shine the way you do.
The way you walk, way you talk, way you say my name –
It's beautiful, wonderful, don't you ever change.
Hey Stephen,
Why are people always leaving?
I think you and I should stay the same.
They're dimming the street lights.
You're perfect for me, why aren't you here tonight?
I'm waiting alone now, so come on and come out and pull me near to shine, shine, shine.
Hey Stephen,
I could give you fifty reasons
Why I should be the one you choose.
All those other girls –
Well, they're beautiful
But would they write a song for you?
I can't help it if you look like an angel,
Can't help it if I wanna kiss you in the rain.
So come feel this magic I've been feeling since I met you.
Can't help it if there's no one else.
Mmm, I can't help myself...
...if you look like an angel.
Can't help it if I wanna kiss you in the rain.
So come feel this magic I've been feeling since I met you.
Can't help it if there's no one else.
Mmm, I can't help myself.
Myself,
Can't help myself,
I can't help myself.Say you're sorry
That face of an angel
Comes out just when you need it to
As I paced back and forth all this time
'Cause I honestly believed in you
Holding on
The days drag on
Stupid girl,
I should have known, I should have known
That I'm not a princess, this ain't a fairy tale,
I'm not the one you'll sweep off her feet,
Lead her up the stairwell
This ain't Hollywood, this is a small town,
I was a dreamer before you went and let me down,
Now it's too late for you and your white horse to come around
Maybe I was naïve,
Got lost in your eyes
And never really had a chance
My mistake, I didn't know to be in love
You had to fight to have the upper hand
I had so many dreams
About you and me
Happy endings
Now I know
That I'm not a princess, this ain't a fairy tale,
I'm not the one you'll sweep off her feet,
Lead her up the stairwell
This ain't Hollywood, this is a small town,
I was a dreamer before you went and let me down,
Now it's too late for you and your white horse to come around
And there you are on your knees,
Begging for forgiveness, begging for me
Just like I always wanted but I'm so sorry
'Cause I'm not your princess, this ain't a fairytale,
I'm gonna find someone someday who might actually treat me well
This is a big world, that was a small town
There in my rear view mirror disappearing now
And it's too late for you and your white horse
Now it's too late for you and your white horse to catch me now
Oh, whoa, whoa, whoa
Try and catch me now
Oh, it's too late
To catch me nowYou're on the phone with your girlfriend
She's upset, she's going off about something that you said
'Cause she doesn't get your humor like I do.
I'm in the room, it's a typical Tuesday night.
I'm listening to the kind of music she doesn't like.
And she'll never know your story like I do.
But she wears short skirts
I wear T-shirts
She's cheer captain
And I'm on the bleachers
Dreaming about the day when you wake up and find
That what you're looking for has been here the whole time.
If you could see
That I'm the one
Who understands you.
Been here all along.
So, why can't you see
You belong with me,
You belong with me.
Walk in the streets with you in your worn-out jeans
I can't help thinking this is how it ought to be.
Laughing on a park bench thinking to myself,
"Hey, isn't this easy?"
And you've got a smile
That could light up this whole town.
I haven't seen it in a while
Since she brought you down.
You say you're fine I know you better than that.
Hey, what you doing with a girl like that?
She wears high heels,
I wear sneakers.
She's cheer captain,
And I'm on the bleachers.
Dreaming about the day when you wake up and find
That what you're looking for has been here the whole time.
If you could see
That I'm the one
Who understands you,
Been here all along.
So, why can't you see
You belong with me.
Standing by and waiting at your backdoor.
All this time how could you not know, baby?
You belong with me,
You belong with me.
Oh, I remember you driving to my house
In the middle of the night.
I'm the one who makes you laugh
When you know you're 'bout to cry.
I know your favorite songs,
And you tell me about your dreams.
Think I know where you belong,
Think I know it's with me.
Can't you see
That I'm the one
Who understands you?
Been here all along.
So, why can't you see
You belong with me.
Standing by and waiting at your backdoor.
All this time how could you not know, baby?
You belong with me,
You belong with me.
You belong with me.
Have you ever thought just maybe
You belong with me?
You belong with me.I see your face in my mind as I drive away,
Cause none of us thought it was gonna end that way.
People are people, and sometimes we change our minds.
But it's killing me to see you go after all this time.
Mmm mmm mmm
Mmm mmm mmm mmm mmm
Mmm mmm mmm
Mmm mmm mmm mmm mmm
Music starts playin' like the end of a sad movie,
It's the kinda ending you don't really wanna see.
Cause it's tragedy and it'll only bring you down,
Now I don't know what to be without you around.
And we know it's never simple, never easy.
Never a clean break, no one here to save me.
You're the only thing I know like the back of my hand,
And I can't breathe without you
But I have to.
Breathe without you
But I have to.
Never wanted this, never wanna see you hurt.
Every little bump in the road I tried to swerve.
People are people, and sometimes it doesn't work out,
Nothing we say is gonna save us from the fall out.
And we know it's never simple, never easy.
Never a clean break, no one here to save me.
You're the only thing I know like the back of my hand,
And I can't breathe without you
But I have to.
Breathe without you
But I have to.
It's two A.M.
Feelin' like I just lost a friend.
Hope you know it's not easy, easy for me.
It's two A.M.
Feelin' like I just lost a friend.
Hope you know this ain't easy, easy for me.
And we know it's never simple, never easy.
Never a clean break, no one here to save me.
Ohhh
And I can't breathe without you
But I have to.
Breathe without you
But I have to.
Breathe without you
But I have to.
I'm sorry (oh)
I'm sorry (mmm)
I'm sorry (eh eh)
I'm sorry (mmm)
I'm sorry (eh eh)
I'm sorry (mmm)
I'm sorryI took a chance, I took a shot 
And you might think i'm bulletproof, but i'm not 
You took a swing, I took it hard 
And down here from the ground I see who you are 
I'm sick and tired of your attitude 
I'm feeling like I don't know you 
You tell me that you love me then you cut me down 
And I need you like a heartbeat 
But you know you got a mean streak 
Makes me run for cover when you're around 
And here's to you and your temper 
Yes, I remember what you said last night 
And I know that you see what you're doing to me 
Tell me why.. 
You could write a book on how to ruin someone's perfect day 
Well I get so confused and frustrated 
Forget what i'm trying to say, oh 
I'm sick and tired of your reasons 
I got no one to believe in 
You tell me that you want me, then push me around 
And I need you like a heartbeat 
But you know you got a mean streak 
Makes me run for cover when you're around 
Here's to you and your temper 
Yes, I remember what you said last night 
And I know that you see what you're doing to me 
Tell me why.. 
Why..do you have to make me feel small 
So you can feel whole inside 
Why..do you have to put down my dreams 
So you're the only thing on my mind 
I'm sick and tired of your attitude 
I'm feeling like I don't know you 
You tell me that you want me then cut me down 
I'm sick and tired of your reasons 
I've got no one to believe in 
You ask me for my love then you push me around 
Here's to you and your temper 
Yes, I remember what you said last night 
And I know that you see what you're doing to me 
Tell me why 
Why, tell me why 
I take a step back, let you go 
I told you i'm not bulletproof 
Now you knowAll this time I was wasting,
Hoping you would come around
I've been giving out chances every time
And all you do is let me down
And it's taken me this long
Baby but I figured you out
And you're thinking we'll be fine again,
But not this time around
You don't have to call anymore
I won't pick up the phone
This is the last straw
Don't wanna hurt anymore
And you can tell me that you're sorry
But I don't believe you baby
Like I did before
You're not sorry, no no oh
Looking so innocent,
I might believe you if I didn't know
Could've loved you all my life
If you hadn't left me waiting in the cold
And you got your share of secrets
And I'm tired of being last to know
And now you're asking me to listen
Cause it's worked each time before
But you don't have to call anymore
I won't pick up the phone
This is the last straw
Don't wanna hurt anymore
And you can tell me that you're sorry
But I don't believe you baby
Like I did before
You're not sorry, no no, oh
You're not sorry no no oh
You had me crying for you honey
And it never would've gone away, no
You used to shine so bright
But I watched all of it fade
So you don't have to call anymore
I won't pick up the phone
This is the last straw
There's nothing left to beg for
And you can tell me that you're sorry
But I don't believe you baby
Like I did before
You're not sorry, no no oh
You're not sorry, no no ohHe is sensible and so incredible 
And all my single friends are jealous 
He says everything I need to hear and it's like 
I couldn't ask for anything better 
He opens up my door and I get into his car 
And he says you look beautiful tonight 
And I feel perfectly fine 
But I miss screaming and fighting and kissing in the rain 
And it's 2am and I'm cursing your name 
You're so in love that you act insane 
And that's the way I loved you 
Breakin' down and coming undone 
It's a roller coaster kinda rush 
And I never knew I could feel that much 
And that's the way I loved you 
He respects my space 
And never makes me wait 
And he calls exactly when he says he will 
He's close to my mother 
Talks business with my father 
He's charming and endearing 
And I'm comfortable 
But I miss screaming and fighting and kissing in the rain 
And it's 2am and I'm cursing your name 
You're so in love that you act insane 
And that's the way I loved you 
Breakin' down and coming undone 
It's a roller coaster kinda rush 
And I never knew I could feel that much 
And that's the way I loved you 
He can't see the smile I'm faking 
And my heart's not breaking 
Cause I'm not feeling anything at all 
And you were wild and crazy 
Just so frustrating intoxicating 
Complicated, got away by some mistake and now 
I miss screaming and fighting and kissing in the rain 
It's 2am and I'm cursing your name 
I'm so in love that I acted insane 
And that's the way I loved you 
Breaking down and coming undone 
It's a roller coaster kinda rush 
And I never knew I could feel that much 
And that's the way I loved you oh, oh 
And that's the way I loved you oh, oh 
Never knew I could feel that much 
And that's the way I loved youI'm so glad you made time to see me.
How's life? Tell me how's your family?
I haven't seen them in a while.
You've been good, busier than ever,
We small talk, work and the weather,
Your guard is up and I know why.
Because the last time you saw me
Is still burned in the back of your mind.
You gave me roses and I left them there to die.
So this is me swallowing my pride,
Standing in front of you saying, "I'm sorry for that night,"
And I go back to December all the time.
It turns out freedom ain't nothing but missing you.
Wishing I'd realized what I had when you were mine.
I'd go back to December, turn around and make it all right.
I go back to December all the time.
These days I haven't been sleeping,
Staying up, playing back myself leavin'.
When your birthday passed and I didn't call.
And I think about summer, all the beautiful times,
I watched you laughing from the passenger side.
Realized I loved you in the fall.
And then the cold came, the dark days when fear crept into my mind
You gave me all your love and all I gave you was "Goodbye".
So this is me swallowing my pride
Standing in front of you saying, "I'm sorry for that night."
And I go back to December all the time.
It turns out freedom ain't nothing but missing you,
Wishing I'd realized what I had when you were mine.
I'd go back to December, turn around and change my own mind
I go back to December all the time.
I miss your tanned skin, your sweet smile,
So good to me, so right
And how you held me in your arms that September night
The first time you ever saw me cry.
Maybe this is wishful thinking,
Probably mindless dreaming,
But if we loved again, I swear I'd love you right.
I'd go back in time and change it but I can't.
So if the chain is on your door I understand.
But this is me swallowing my pride
Standing in front of you saying, "I'm sorry for that night."
And I go back to December...
It turns out freedom ain't nothing but missing you,
Wishing I'd realized what I had when you were mine.
I'd go back to December, turn around and make it all right.
I'd go back to December, turn around and change my own mind
I go back to December all the time.
All the time.Once upon a time,
I believe it was a Tuesday when I caught your eye
And we caught onto something
I hold onto the night,
You looked me in the eye
And told me you loved me
Were you just kidding?
'Cause it seems to me, this thing is breaking down
We almost never speak
I don't feel welcome anymore
Baby, what happened, please tell me?
'Cause one second it was perfect, now you're half way out the door
And I stare at the phone,
He still hasn't called
And then you feel so low you can't feel nothing at all
And you flashback to when he said forever and always
Oh, and it rains in your bedroom
Everything is wrong
It rains when you're here and it rains when you're gone
'Cause I was there when you said forever and always
Was I out of line?
Did I say something way too honest?
Made you run and hide
Like a scared little boy?
I looked into your eyes
Thought I knew you for a minute, now I'm not so sure
So here's to everything
Coming down to nothing
Here's to silence
That cuts me to the core
Where is this going?
Thought I knew for a minute, but I don't anymore
And I stare at the phone,
He still hasn't called
And then you feel so low, you can't feel nothing at all
And you flashback to when he said forever and always
Oh, and it rains in your bedroom
Everything is wrong
It rains when you're here and it rains when you're gone
'Cause I was there when you said forever and always
You didn't mean it, baby,
I don't think so
Back up, baby, back up
Did you forget everything?
Back up, baby, back up
Did you forget everything?
'Cause it rains in your bedroom
Everything is wrong
It rains when you're here and it rains when you're gone
'Cause I was there when you said forever and always
Oh, I stare at the phone,
He still hasn't called
And then you feel so low
You can't feel nothing at all
And you flashback to when we said forever and always
And it rains in your bedroom
Everything is wrong
It rains when you're here and it rains when you're gone
'Cause I was there when you said forever and always
You didn't mean it, baby,
You said forever and always... yeahI'm five years old
It's getting cold
I've got my big coat on
I hear your laugh
And look up smiling at you
I run and run
Past the pumpkin patch
And the tractor rides
Look now -- the sky is gold
I hug your legs and fall asleep
On the way home
I don't know why all the trees change in the fall
I know you're not scared of anything at all
Don't know if Snow White's house is near or far away
But I know I had the best day
With you today
I'm thirteen now
And don't know how my friends
Could be so mean
I come home crying and you hold me tight and grab the keys
And we drive and drive
Until we've found a town
Far enough away
And we talk and window-shop
Until I've forgotten all their names
I don't know who I'm gonna talk to
Now at school
I know I'm laughing on the car ride home with you
Don't know how long it's gonna take to feel okay
But I know I had the best day
With you today
I have an excellent father
His strength is making me stronger
God smiles on my little brother
Inside and out
He's better than I am
I grew up in a pretty house
And I had space to run
And I had the best days with you
There is a video
I found from back when I was three
You set up a paint set in the kitchen
And you're talking to me
It's the age of princesses and pirate ships
And the seven dwarfs
Daddy's smart
And you're the prettiest lady in the whole wide world
Now I know why all the trees change in the fall
I know you were on my side
Even when I was wrong
And I love you for giving me your eyes
Staying back and watching me shine
And I didn't know if you knew
So I'm taking this chance to say
That I had the best day
With you today
And it’s a sad picture,
The final blow hits you
Somebody else gets what you wanted again
And you know it’s all the same,
Another time and place
Repeating history and you’re getting sick of it
But I believe in whatever you do
And I’ll do anything to see it through
Because these things will change
Can you feel it now?
These walls that they put up to hold us back will fall down
This revolution, the time will come
For us to finally win
And we’ll sing hallelujah, we’ll sing hallelujah
So we’ve been outnumbered
Raided and now cornered
It’s hard to fight when the fight ain’t fair
We’re getting stronger now
Find things they never found
They might be bigger
But we’re faster and never scared
You can walk away, say we don’t need this
But there’s something in your eyes says we can beat this
'Cause these things will change
Can you feel it now?
These walls that they put up to hold us back will fall down
This revolution, the time will come
For us to finally win
And we’ll sing hallelujah, we'll sing hallelujah
Tonight we'll stand, get off our knees
Fight for what we’ve worked for all these years
And the battle was long, it’s the fight of our lives
But we’ll stand up champions tonight
It was the night things changed
Can you see it now?
These walls that they put up to hold us back fell down
This revolution, throw your hands up
'Cause we never gave in
And we'll sing hallelujah, we sang hallelujah
HallelujahUh, oh, oh
Uh, oh, oh
You were in college working part time waiting tables
Left a small town, never looked back
I was a flight risk with a fear of fallin’
Wondering why we bother with love if it never lasts
I say, "Can you believe it?"
As we’re lying on the couch
The moment I can see it.
Yes, yes, I can see it now.
Do you remember, we were sitting there by the water?
You put your arm around me for the first time.
You made a rebel of a careless man’s careful daughter.
You are the best thing that’s ever been mine.
Flash forward and we’re taking on the world together,
And there’s a drawer of my things at your place.
You learn my secrets and you figure out why I’m guarded,
You say we’ll never make my parents’ mistakes.
But we got bills to pay,
We got nothing figured out,
When it was hard to take,
Yes, yes, this is what I thought about.
Do you remember, we were sitting there by the water?
You put your arm around me for the first time
You made a rebel of a careless man’s careful daughter
You are the best thing that’s ever been mine.
Do you remember all the city lights on the water?
You saw me start to believe for the first time
You made a rebel of a careless man’s careful daughter
You are the best thing that’s ever been mine.
Oh, oh, oh, oh
And I remember that fight
Two-thirty AM
As everything was slipping right out of our hands
I ran out crying and you followed me out into the street
Braced myself for the "Goodbye."
‘Cause that’s all I’ve ever known
Then you took me by surprise
You said, "I’ll never leave you alone."
You said, "I remember how we felt sitting by the water.
And every time I look at you, it’s like the first time.
I fell in love with a careless man’s careful daughter.
She is the best thing that’s ever been mine."
Hold on, make it last
Hold on, never turn back
You made a rebel of a careless man’s careful daughter
You are the best thing that’s ever been mine.
(Hold on) do you believe it?
(Hold on) we're gonna make it now.
(Hold on) and I can see it,
(Yes, yes) I can see it now (see it now, see it now...)The way you move is like a full-on rainstorm
And I'm a house of cards
You're the kind of reckless
That should send me runnin'
But I kinda know that I won't get far
And you stood there in front of me
Just close enough to touch
Close enough to hope you couldn't see
What I was thinking of
Drop everything now
Meet me in the pouring rain
Kiss me on the sidewalk
Take away the pain
'Cause I see sparks fly whenever you smile
Get me with those green eyes, baby, as the lights go down
Give me something that'll haunt me when you're not around
'Cause I see sparks fly whenever you smile
My mind forgets to remind me
You're a bad idea
You touch me once and it's really something,
You find I'm even better than you imagined I would be.
I'm on my guard for the rest of the world
But with you I know it's no good
And I could wait patiently but I really wish you would...
Drop everything now
Meet me in the pouring rain
Kiss me on the sidewalk
Take away the pain
'Cause I see sparks fly whenever you smile
Get me with those green eyes, baby, as the lights go down
Give me something that'll haunt me when you're not around
'Cause I see sparks fly whenever you smile
I'll run my fingers through your hair and watch the lights go wild.
Just keep on keeping your eyes on me, it's just wrong enough to make it feel right.
And lead me up the staircase
Won't you whisper soft and slow?
I'm captivated by you, baby, like a firework show.
Drop everything now,
Meet me in the pouring rain,
Kiss me on the sidewalk,
Take away the pain
'Cause I see sparks fly whenever you smile.
Get me with those green eyes, baby, as the lights go down
Give me something that'll haunt me when you're not around
'Cause I see sparks fly whenever you smile
And the sparks fly...
Oh, baby, smile...
And the sparks fly...I am not the kind of girl
Who should be rudely barging in on a white veil occasion
But you are not the kind of boy
Who should be marrying the wrong girl
I sneak in and see your friends
And her snotty little family all dressed in pastel
And she is yelling at a bridesmaid
Somewhere back inside a room
Wearing a gown shaped like a pastry
This is surely not what you thought it would be
I lose myself in a daydream
Where I stand and say
[Chorus:]
Don’t say "Yes", run away now
I’ll meet you when you’re out of the church at the back door
Don’t wait or say a single vow
You need to hear me out
And they said, "Speak now."
Fond gestures are exchanged
And the organ starts to play
A song that sounds like a death march
And I am hiding in the curtains
It seems that I was uninvited by your lovely bride-to-be
She floats down the aisle like a pageant queen
But I know you wish it was me,
You wish it was me,
Don’t you?
Don’t say "Yes", run away now,
I’ll meet you when you’re out of the church at the back door.
Don’t wait or say a single vow,
You need to hear me out,
And they said, "Speak now."
Don’t say "Yes", run away now,
I’ll meet you when you’re out of the church at the back door.
Don’t wait or say a single vow,
Your time is running out,
And they said, "Speak now."
Oh, la, la
Oh, oh
Say a single vow
I hear the preacher say, "Speak now or forever hold your peace."
There’s the silence, there’s my last chance.
I stand up with shaky hands, all eyes on me.
Horrified looks from everyone in the room
But I’m only looking at you.
I am not the kind of girl
Who should be rudely barging in on a white veil occasion
But you are not the kind of boy
Who should be marrying the wrong girl
So, don’t say "Yes", run away now,
I’ll meet you when you’re out of the church at the back door.
Don’t wait or say a single vow,
You need to hear me out,
And they said, "Speak now."
And you say, "Let’s run away now,
I’ll meet you when I’m out of my tux at the back door.
Baby, I didn’t say my vows,
So glad you were around
When they said, "Speak now."Long were the nights when
My days once revolved around you
Counting my footsteps
Praying the floor won’t fall through, again
And my mother accused me of losing my mind
But I swore I was fine
You paint me a blue sky
And go back and turn it to rain
And I lived in your chess game
But you changed the rules everyday
Wonderin’ which version of you I might get on the phone, tonight
Well I stopped pickin’ up and this song is to let you know why
Dear John, I see it all now that you're gone.
Don't you think I was too young
To be messed with?
The girl in the dress
Cried the whole way home, I should've known.
Well maybe it’s me
And my blind optimism to blame
Or maybe it’s you and your sick need
To give love then take it away
And you'll add my name to your long list of traitors who don't understand
And I'll look back in regret how I ignored when they said,
"Run as fast as you can."
Dear John, I see it all now that you're gone.
Don't you think I was too young
To be messed with?
The girl in the dress
Cried the whole way home
Dear John, I see it all now it was wrong
Don’t you think nineteen’s too young
To be played by your dark, twisted games?
When I loved you so, I should've known.
You are an expert at "Sorry"
And keeping lines blurry
Never impressed by me acing your tests
All the girls that you've run dry have tired lifeless eyes
Cause you've burned them out
But I took your matches
Before fire could catch me
So don’t look now
I’m shining like fireworks
Over your sad empty town
Dear John, I see it all now that you're gone.
Don't you think I was too young
To be messed with?
The girl in the dress
Cried the whole way home
I see it all now that you're gone
Don't you think I was too young
To be messed with?
The girl in the dress
Wrote you a song, you should’ve known.
You should’ve known
Don’t you think I was too young?
You should’ve known.You, with your words like knives
And swords and weapons that you use against me
You have knocked me off my feet again
Got me feeling like a nothing
You, with your voice like nails on a chalkboard
Calling me out when I'm wounded
You, picking on the weaker man
Well you can take me down with just one single blow
But you don't know, what you don't know...
Someday I'll be living in a big ole city
And all you're ever gonna be is mean
Someday I'll be big enough so you can't hit me
And all you're ever gonna be is mean
Why you gotta be so mean?
You, with your switching sides
And your wildfire lies and your humiliation
You have pointed out my flaws again
As if I don't already see them
I walk with my head down
Trying to block you out 'cause I'll never impress you
I just wanna feel okay again
I bet you got pushed around
Somebody made you cold
But the cycle ends right now
'Cause you can't lead me down that road
And you don't know, what you don't know...
Someday I'll be living in a big ole city
And all you're ever gonna be is mean
Someday I'll be big enough so you can't hit me
And all you're ever gonna be is mean
Why you gotta be so mean?
And I can see you years from now in a bar
Talking over a football game
With that same big loud opinion
But nobody's listening
Washed up and ranting about the same old bitter things
Drunk and grumbling on about how I can't sing
But all you are is mean
All you are is mean
And a liar, and pathetic, and alone in life
And mean, and mean, and mean, and mean
But someday I'll be living in a big ole city
And all you're ever gonna be is mean, yeah
Someday I'll be big enough so you can't hit me
And all you're ever gonna be is mean
Why you gotta be so?...
Someday I'll be living in a big ole city (Why you gotta be so?...)
And all you're ever gonna be is mean (Why you gotta be so?...)
Someday I'll be big enough so you can't hit me (Why you gotta be so?...)
And all you're ever gonna be is mean
Why you gotta be so mean?I used to think one day we'd tell the story of us,
How we met and the sparks flew instantly,
and people would say, "They're the lucky ones."
I used to know my place was the spot next to you,
Now I'm searching the room for an empty seat,
'Cause lately I don't even know what page you're on.
Oh, a simple complication,
Miscommunications lead to fall-out.
So many things that I wish you knew,
So many walls up I can't break through.
Now I'm standing alone in a crowded room and we're not speaking,
And I'm dying to know is it killing you like it's killing me, yeah?
I don't know what to say, since the twist of fate when it all broke down,
And the story of us looks a lot like a tragedy now.
Next chapter.
How'd we end up this way?
See me nervously pulling at my clothes and trying to look busy,
And you're doing your best to avoid me.
I'm starting to think one day I'll tell the story of us,
How I was losing my mind when I saw you here,
But you held your pride like you should've held me.
Oh, I'm scared to see the ending,
Why are we pretending this is nothing?
I'd tell you I miss you but I don't know how,
I've never heard silence quite this loud.
Now I'm standing alone in a crowded room and we're not speaking,
And I'm dying to know is it killing you like it's killing me, yeah?
I don't know what to say, since the twist of fate when it all broke down,
And the story of us looks a lot like a tragedy now.
This is looking like a contest,
Of who can act like they care less,
But I liked it better when you were on my side.
The battle's in your hands now,
But I would lay my armor down
If you said you'd rather love than fight.
So many things that you wish I knew,
But the story of us might be ending soon.
Now I'm standing alone in a crowded room and we're not speaking,
And I'm dying to know is it killing you like it's killing me, yeah?
I don't know what to say, since the twist of fate when it all broke down,
And the story of us looks a lot like a tragedy now, now, now.
And we're not speaking,
And I'm dying to know is it killing you like it's killing me, yeah?
I don't know what to say, since the twist of fate 'cause we're going down,
And the story of us looks a lot like a tragedy now.
The end.Your little hand's wrapped around my finger
And it's so quiet in the world tonight
Your little eyelids flutter cause you're dreaming
So I tuck you in, turn on your favorite night light
To you everything's funny, you got nothing to regret
I'd give all I have, honey
If you could stay like that
Oh darling, don't you ever grow up
Don't you ever grow up, just stay this little
Oh darling, don't you ever grow up
Don't you ever grow up, it could stay this simple
I won't let nobody hurt you, won't let no one break your heart
And no one will desert you
Just try to never grow up, never grow up
You're in the car on the way to the movies
And you're mortified your mom's dropping you off
At 14 there's just so much you can't do
And you can't wait to move out someday and call your own shots
But don't make her drop you off around the block
Remember that she's getting older too
And don't lose the way that you dance around in your pj's getting ready for school
Oh darling, don't you ever grow up
Don't you ever grow up, just stay this little
Oh darling, don't you ever grow up
Don't you ever grow up, it could stay this simple
No one's ever burned you, nothing's ever left you scarred
And even though you want to, just try to never grow up
Take pictures in your mind of your childhood room
Memorize what it sounded like when your dad gets home
Remember the footsteps, remember the words said
And all your little brother's favorite songs
I just realized everything I have is someday gonna be gone
So here I am in my new apartment
In a big city, they just dropped me off
It's so much colder than I thought it would be
So I tuck myself in and turn my night light on
Wish I'd never grown up
I wish I'd never grown up
Oh I don't wanna grow up, wish I'd never grown up
I could still be little
Oh I don't wanna grow up, wish I'd never grown up
It could still be simple
Oh darling, don't you ever grow up
Don't you ever grow up, just stay this little
Oh darling, don't you ever grow up
Don't you ever grow up, it could stay this simple
Won't let nobody hurt you
Won't let no one break your heart
And even though you want to, please try to never grow up
Oh, don't you ever grow up
Oh, never grow up, just never grow up
He said the way my blue eyes shined
Put those Georgia stars to shame that night
I said, "That's a lie."
Just a boy in a Chevy truck
That had a tendency of gettin' stuck
On back roads at night
And I was right there beside him all summer long
And then the time we woke up to find that summer gone
But when you think Tim McGraw
I hope you think my favorite song
The one we danced to all night long
The moon like a spotlight on the lake
When you think happiness
I hope you think that little black dress
Think of my head on your chest
And my old faded blue jeans
When you think Tim McGraw
I hope you think of me
September saw a month of tears
And thankin' God that you weren't here
To see me like that
But in a box beneath my bed
Is a letter that you never read
From three summers back
It's hard not to find it all a little bitter sweet
And lookin' back on all of that, it's nice to believe
When you think Tim McGraw
I hope you think my favorite song
The one we danced to all night long
The moon like a spotlight on the lake
When you think happiness
I hope you think that little black dress
Think of my head on your chest
And my old faded blue jeans
When you think Tim McGraw
I hope you think of me
And I'm back for the first time since then
I'm standin' on your street
And there's a letter left on your doorstep
And the first thing that you'll read is:
When you think Tim McGraw
I hope you think my favorite song
Someday you'll turn your radio on
I hope it takes you back to that place
When you think happiness
I hope you think that little black dress
Think of my head on your chest
And my old faded blue jeans
When you think Tim McGraw
I hope you think of me
Oh, think of me
Mmmm
He said the way my blue eyes shined
Put those Georgia stars to shame that night
I said, "That's a lie."
There I was again tonight
Forcing laughter, faking smiles
Same old tired lonely place
Walls of insincerity,
Shifting eyes and vacancy
Vanished when I saw your face
All I can say is it was enchanting to meet you
Your eyes whispered, "Have we met?"
Across the room your silhouette
Starts to make its way to me
The playful conversation starts
Counter all your quick remarks
Like passing notes in secrecy
And it was enchanting to meet you
All I can say is I was enchanted to meet you
This night is sparkling, don't you let it go
I'm wonderstruck, blushing all the way home
I'll spend forever wondering if you knew
I was enchanted to meet you
The lingering question kept me up
2 AM, who do you love?
I wonder 'til I'm wide awake
And now I'm pacing back and forth
Wishing you were at my door
I'd open up and you would say, "Hey,
It was enchanting to meet you,
All I know is I was enchanted to meet you."
This night is sparkling, don't you let it go
I'm wonderstruck, blushing all the way home
I'll spend forever wondering if you knew
This night is flawless, don't you let it go
I'm wonderstruck, dancing around all alone
I'll spend forever wondering if you knew
I was enchanted to meet you
This is me praying that
This was the very first page
Not where the story line ends
My thoughts will echo your name
Until I see you again
These are the words I held back
As I was leaving too soon
I was enchanted to meet you
Please don't be in love with someone else
Please don't have somebody waiting on you
Please don't be in love with someone else
Please don't have somebody waiting on you
This night is sparkling, don't you let it go
I'm wonderstruck, blushing all the way home
I'll spend forever wondering if you knew
This night is flawless, don't you let it go
I'm wonderstruck, dancing around all alone
I'll spend forever wondering if you knew
I was enchanted to meet you
Please don't be in love with someone else
Please don't have somebody waiting on you"Now go stand in the corner and think about what you did"
Ha!
Time for a little revenge
The story starts when it was hot and it was summer and...
I had it all, I had him right there where I wanted him
She came along, got him alone and let's hear the applause
She took him faster than you could say "sabotage"
I never saw it coming, wouldn't have suspected it
I underestimated just who I was dealing with
She had to know the pain was beating on me like a drum
She underestimated just who she was stealing from
She's not a saint
And she's not what you think
She's an actress, whoa
She's better known
For the things that she does
On the mattress, whoa
Soon she's gonna find
Stealing other people's toys
On the playground won't
Make you many friends
She should keep in mind
She should keep in mind
There is nothing I do better than revenge
She looks at life like it's a party and she's on the list
She looks at me like I'm a trend and she's so over it
I think her ever-present frown is a little troubling
And she thinks I'm psycho 'cause I like to rhyme her name with things
But sophistication isn't what you wear or who you know
Or pushing people down to get you where you wanna go
They wouldn't teach you that in prep school so it's up to me
But no amount of vintage dresses gives you dignity
She's not a saint
And she's not what you think
She's an actress, whoa
She's better known
For the things that she does
On the mattress, whoa
Soon she's gonna find
Stealing other people's toys
On the playground won't
Make you many friends
She should keep in mind
She should keep in mind
There is nothing I do better than revenge
I'm just another thing for you
To roll your eyes at, honey
You might have him but haven't you heard
I'm just another thing for you
To roll your eyes at, honey
You might have him but I always get the last word
Whoa
She's not a saint
And she's not what you think
She's an actress, whoa
She's better known
For the things that she does
On the mattress, whoa
Soon she's gonna find
Stealing other people's toys
On the playground won't
Make you many friends
She should keep in mind
She should keep in mind
There is nothing I do better than revenge
Do you still feel like you know what you're doing?
'Cause I don't think you do. Oh.
Do you still feel like you know what you're doing?
I don't think you do
I don't think you do
Let's hear the applause
Come on show me how much better you are (so much better, yeah)
So you deserve some applause 'cause you're so much better
She took him faster than you could say "sabotage"I guess you really did it this time
Left yourself in your warpath
Lost your balance on a tightrope
Lost your mind tryin' to get it back
Wasn't it easier in your lunchbox days?
Always a bigger bed to crawl into
Wasn't it beautiful when you believed in everything
And everybody believed in you?
It's alright, just wait and see
Your string of lights is still bright to me
Oh, who you are is not where you've been.
You're still an innocent,
You're still an innocent.
Did some things you can't speak of
But at night you live it all again
You wouldn't be shattered on the floor now
If only you had seen what you know now then
Wasn't it easier in your firefly-catchin' days?
When everything out of reach, someone bigger brought down to you
Wasn't it beautiful runnin' wild 'til you fell asleep
Before the monsters caught up to you?
It's alright, just wait and see
Your string of lights is still bright to me
Oh, who you are is not what you've been
You're still an innocent
It's okay, life is a tough crowd
32, and still growin' up now
Who you are is not what you did.
You're still an innocent.
Time turns flames to embers
You'll have new Septembers
Every one of us has messed up too
Minds change like the weather
I hope you remember
Today is never too late to be brand new
It's alright, just wait and see
Your string of lights is still bright to me
Oh, who you are is not what you've been
You're still an innocent.
It's okay, life is a tough crowd
32, and still growin' up now
Who you are is not what you did
You're still an innocent.
You're still an innocent.
Lost your balance on a tightrope.
It's never too late to get it back.You and I walk a fragile line
I have known it all this time
But I never thought I'd live to see it break
It's getting dark and it's all too quiet
And I can't trust anything now
And it's coming over you like it's all a big mistake
Oh, I'm holding my breath
Won't lose you again
Something's made your eyes go cold
Come on, come on, don't leave me like this
I thought I had you figured out
Something's gone terribly wrong
You're all I wanted
Come on, come on, don't leave me like this
I thought I had you figured out
Can't breathe whenever you're gone
Can't turn back now, I'm haunted
Stood there and watched you walk away
From everything we had
But I still mean every word I said to you
He will try to take away my pain
And he just might make me smile
But the whole time I'm wishing he was you instead
Oh, I'm holding my breath
Won't see you again
Something keeps me holding on to nothing
Come on, come on, don't leave me like this
I thought I had you figured out
Something's gone terribly wrong
You're all I wanted
Come on, come on, don't leave me like this
I thought I had you figured out
Can't breathe whenever you're gone
Can't turn back now, I'm haunted
I know, I know, I just know
You're not gone. You can't be gone. No.
Come on, come on, don't leave me like this
I thought I had you figured out
Something's gone terribly wrong
Won't finish what you started
Come on, come on, don't leave me like this
I thought I had you figured out
Can't breathe whenever you're gone
Can't go back, I'm haunted
Oh
You and I walk a fragile line
I have known it all this time
Never ever thought I'd see it break.
Never thought I'd see it...I still remember the look on your face
Lit through the darkness at 1:58
The words that you whispered
For just us to know
You told me you loved me
So why did you go away?
Away
I do recall now the smell of the rain
Fresh on the pavement
I ran off the plane
That July 9th
The beat of your heart
It jumps through your shirt
I can still feel your arms
But now I'll go sit on the floor
Wearing your clothes
All that I know is
I don't know how to be something you miss
I never thought we'd have a last kiss
Never imagined we'd end like this
Your name, forever the name on my lips
I do remember the swing of your step
The life of the party, you're showing off again
And I roll my eyes and then
You pull me in
I'm not much for dancing
But for you I did
Because I love your handshake, meeting my father
I love how you walk with your hands in your pockets
How you kissed me when I was in the middle of saying something
There's not a day I don't miss those rude interruptions
And I'll go sit on the floor
Wearing your clothes
All that I know is
I don't know how to be something you miss
Never thought we'd have a last kiss
Never imagined we'd end like this
Your name, forever the name on my lips
So I'll watch your life in pictures like I used to watch you sleep
And I feel you forget me like I used to feel you breathe
And I keep up with our old friends just to ask them how you are
Hope it's nice where you are
And I hope the sun shines
And it's a beautiful day
And something reminds you
You wish you had stayed
You can plan for a change in weather and time
But I never planned on you changing your mind
So I'll go sit on the floor
Wearing your clothes
All that I know is
I don't know how to be something you miss
Never thought we'd have a last kiss
Never imagined we'd end like this
Your name, forever the name on my lips
Just like our last kiss
Forever the name on my lips
Forever the name on my lips
Just like our last...I said remember this moment in the back of my mind
The time we stood with our shaking hands
The crowds in stands went wild
We were the Kings and the Queens
And they read off our names
The night you danced like you knew our lives
Would never be the same
You held your head like a hero
On a history book page
It was the end of a decade
But the start of an age
Long live the walls we crashed through
How the kingdom lights shined just for me and you
I was screaming long live all the magic we made
And bring on all the pretenders
One day, we will be remembered
I said remember this feeling
I pass the pictures around
Of all the years that we stood there
On the side-lines wishing for right now
We are the Kings and the Queens
You traded your baseball cap for a crown
When they gave us our trophies
And we held them up for our town
And the cynics were outraged
Screaming, "This is absurd!"
Cause for a moment a band of thieves
In ripped up jeans got to rule the world
Long live the walls we crashed through
How the kingdom lights shined just for me and you
I was screaming long live all the magic we made
And bring on all the pretenders
I'm not afraid
Long live all the mountains we moved
I had the time of my life fighting dragons with you
I was screaming long live that look on your face
And bring on all the pretenders
One day, we will be remembered
Hold on to spinning around
Confetti falls to the ground
May these memories break our fall
Will you take a moment, promise me this
That you'll stand by me forever
But if God forbid fate should step in
And force us into a goodbye
If you have children some day
When they point to the pictures
Please tell them my name
Tell them how the crowds went wild
Tell them how I hope they shine
Long live the walls we crashed through
I had the time of my life, with you
Long, long live the walls we crashed through
How the kingdom lights shined just for me and you
And I was screaming long live all the magic we made
And bring on all the pretenders
I'm not afraid
Singing, long live all the mountains we moved
I had the time of my life fighting dragons with you
And long, long live the look on your face
And bring on all the pretenders
One day, we will be rememberedElevator buttons and morning air
Strangers' silence makes me wanna take the stairs
If you were here we'd laugh about their vacant stares
But right now my time is theirs
Seems like there's always someone who disapproves
They'll judge it like they know about me and you
And the verdict comes from those with nothing else to do
The jury's out, but my choice is you
So don't you worry your pretty little mind
People throw rocks at things that shine
And life makes love look hard
The stakes are high, the water's rough
But this love is ours
You never know what people have up their sleeves
Ghosts from your past gonna jump out at me
Lurking in the shadows with their lip gloss smiles
But I don't care 'cause right now you're mine
And you'll say
Don't you worry your pretty little mind
People throw rocks at things that shine
And life makes love look hard
The stakes are high, the water's rough
But this love is ours
And it's not theirs to speculate
If it's wrong and
Your hands are tough
But they are where mine belong and
I'll fight their doubt and give you faith
With this song for you
'Cause I love the gap between your teeth
And I love the riddles that you speak
And any snide remarks from my father about your tattoos will be ignored
'Cause my heart is yours
So don't you worry your pretty little mind
People throw rocks at things that shine
And life makes love look hard
Don't you worry your pretty little mind
People throw rocks at things that shine
But they can't take what's ours
They can't take what's ours
The stakes are high, the water's rough
But this love is oursLast night I heard my own heart beating
Sounded like footsteps on my stairs
Six months gone and I'm still reaching
Even though I know you're not there
I was playing back a thousand memories, baby
Thinking 'bout everything we've been through
Maybe I've been going back too much lately
When time stood still and I had you
Come back, come back, come back to me like
You would, you would if this was a movie
Stand in the rain outside 'til I came out
Come back, come back, come back to me like
You could, you could if you just said you're sorry
I know that we could work it out somehow
But if this was a movie you'd be here by now
I know people change and these things happen
But I remember how it was back then
Locked up in your arms and our friends are laughing
'Cause nothing like this ever happened to them,
Now I'm pacing down the hall, chasing down your street
Flashback to the night when you said to me,
"Nothing's gonna change, not for me and you,
Not before I knew how much I had to lose."
Come back, come back, come back to me like
You would, you would if this was a movie
Stand in the rain outside 'til I came out
Come back, come back, come back to me like
You could, you could if you just said you're sorry
I know that we could work it out somehow
But if this was a movie you'd be here by now
If you're out there,
If you're somewhere,
If you're moving on,
I've been waiting for you.
Ever since you've been gone
I just want it back the way it was before.
And I just wanna see you back at my front door.
And I'd say
Come back, come back, come back to me like
You would before you said, "It's not that easy."
Before the fight, before I locked you out
But I take it all back now
Come back, come back, come back to me like
You would, you would if this was a movie
Stand in the rain outside 'til I came out
Come back, come back, come back to me like
You could, you could if you just said you're sorry
I know that we could work it out somehow
But if this was a movie you'd be here by now
You'd be here by now
It's not the kind of ending you wanna see now
Baby, what about the ending
Oh, I thought you'd be here by now, whoa
Thought you'd be here by nowTall, dark and superman
He puts papers in his briefcase and drives away
To save the world or go to work
It's the same thing to me
He's got his mother's eyes, his father's ambition
I wonder if he knows how much that I miss him
I hang on every word you say, yay
And you smile and say, "How are you? "
I say, "Just fine"
I always forget to tell you, I love you, I love you... forever
I watch superman fly away
You've got a busy day today
Go save the world, I'll be around
I watch superman fly away
Come back I'll be with you someday
I'll be right here on the ground
When you come back down
Tall, dark and beautiful
He's complicated, he's irrational
But I hope someday you'll take me away and save the day, yeah
Something in his deep brown eyes has me sayin'
He's not all bad like his reputation
And I can't hear one single word they say
And you'll leave, got places to be and I'll be OK
I always forget to tell you I love you, I loved you from the very first day
I watch superman fly away
You've got a busy day today
Go save the world I'll be around
I watch superman fly away
Come back I'll be with you someday
I'll be right here on the ground
When you come back down
And I watch you fly around the world
And I hope you don't save some other girl
Don't forget, don't forget about me
I'm far away but I never let you go
I'm lovestruck and looking out the window
Don't forget, don't forget where I'll be
Right here wishing the flowers were from you
Wishing the card was from you
Wishing the call was from you
'Cause I loved you from the very first day
I watch superman fly away
You've got a busy day today
Go save the world, I'll be around...
Forever and ever here
I watch superman fly away
I swear I'll be with you someday
I'll be right here on the ground
When you come back down
La, la, la, la, la, la
La, la, la, la, la, la
When you come back downI'm walking fast through the traffic lights
Busy streets and busy lives
And all we know
Is touch and go
We are alone with our changing minds
We fall in love 'til it hurts or bleeds or fades in time
And I never (never) saw you coming
And I'll never (never) be the same
You come around and the armor falls
Pierce the room like a cannonball
Now all we know is don't let go
We are alone, just you and me
Up in your room and our slates are clean
Just twin fire signs
Four blue eyes
So you were never a saint
And I’ve loved in shades of wrong
We learn to live with the pain
Mosaic broken hearts
But this love is brave and wild
And I never (never) {[x8:] Oh oh, oh oh oh-oh-oh-ooh} saw you coming
And I'll never (never) be the same
This is a state of grace
This is the worthwhile fight
Love is a ruthless game
Unless you play it good and right
These are the hands of fate
You're my Achilles heel
This is the golden age of something good and right and real
And I never (never) saw you coming
And I'll never (never) be the same
And I never (never) {[x8:] Oh oh, oh oh oh-oh-oh-ooh} saw you coming
And I'll never (never) be the same
This is a state of grace
This is the worthwhile fight
Love is a ruthless game
Unless you play it good and rightState the obvious, I didn't get my perfect fantasy
I realize you love yourself more than you could ever love me
So go and tell your friends that I'm obsessive and crazy
That's fine I'll tell mine that you're gay!
That's fine you won't mind if I say
By the way...
I hate that stupid old pickup truck
You never let me drive
You're a redneck heartbreak
Who's really bad at lying
So watch me strike a match
On all my wasted time
As far as I'm concerned you're
Just another picture to burn!
There's no time for tears,
I'm just sitting here planning my revenge
There's nothing stopping me
From going out with all of your best friends
And if you come around saying sorry to me
My daddy's gonna show you how sorry you'll be
And if you're missing me,
You'd better keep it to yourself
'Cause coming back around here
Would be bad for your health...
'Cause I hate that stupid old pickup truck
You never let me drive
You're a redneck heartbreak
Who's really bad at lying
So watch me strike a match
On all my wasted time
In case you haven't heard,
I really really hate that...
Burn, burn, burn, baby, burn
You're just another picture to burn
Baby, burn...Loving him is like driving a new Maserati down a dead-end street
Faster than the wind, passionate as sin, ending so suddenly
Loving him is like trying to change your mind once you're already flying through the free fall
Like the colors in autumn, so bright just before they lose it all
Losing him was blue like I'd never known
Missing him was dark grey all alone
Forgetting him was like trying to know somebody you never met
But loving him was red
Loving him was red
Touching him was like realizing all you ever wanted was right there in front of you
Memorizing him was as easy as knowing all the words to your old favorite song
Fighting with him was like trying to solve a crossword and realizing there's no right answer
Regretting him was like wishing you never found out that love could be that strong
Losing him was blue like I'd never known
Missing him was dark grey all alone
Forgetting him was like trying to know somebody you never met
But loving him was red
Oh, red
Burning red
Remembering him comes in flashbacks and echoes
Tell myself it's time now, gotta let go
But moving on from him is impossible
When I still see it all in my head
In burning red
Burning, it was red
Oh, losing him was blue like I'd never known
Missing him was dark grey all alone
Forgetting him was like trying to know somebody you never met
'Cause loving him was red
Yeah, yeah, red
We're burning red
And that's why he's spinnin' 'round in my head
Comes back to me, burning red
Yeah, yeah
His love was like driving a new Maserati down a dead-end streetPut your lips close to mine
As long as they don't touch
Out of focus, eye to eye
Till the gravity's too much
And I'll do anything you say
If you say it with your hands
And I'd be smart to walk away,
But you're quicksand
This slope is treacherous
This path is reckless
This slope is treacherous
And I, I, I like it
I can't decide if it's a choice
Getting swept away
I hear the sound of my own voice
Asking you to stay
And all we are is skin and bone
Trained to get along
Forever going with the flow,
But you're friction
This slope is treacherous
This path is reckless
This slope is treacherous
And I, I, I like it
Two headlights shine through the sleepless night
And I will get you, and get you alone
Your name has echoed through my mind
And I just think you should, think you should know
That nothing safe is worth the drive and I would
Follow you, follow you home...
I'll follow you, follow you home...
This hope is treacherous
This daydream is dangerous
This hope is treacherous
I, I, I... I, I, I... I, I, I...
Two headlights shine through the sleepless night
And I will get you, and get you alone
Your name has echoed through my mind
And I just think you should, think you should know
That nothing safe is worth the drive and I will
Follow you, follow you home...
I'll follow you, follow you home...
I'll follow you, follow you home...
I'll follow you, follow you home...
This slope is treacherous
I, I, I like itI think--I think when it's all over,
It just comes back in flashes, you know?
It's like a kaleidoscope of memories.
It just all comes back. But he never does.
I think part of me knew the second I saw him that this would happen.
It's not really anything he said or anything he did,
It was the feeling that came along with it.
And the crazy thing is I don't know if I'm ever gonna feel that way again.
But I don't know if I should.
I knew his world moved too fast and burned too bright.
But I just thought, how can the devil be pulling you toward someone who looks so much like an angel when he smiles at you?
Maybe he knew that when he saw me.
I guess I just lost my balance.
I think that the worst part of it all wasn't losing him.
It was losing me.
Once upon a time a few mistakes ago
I was in your sights, you got me alone
You found me, you found me, you found me
I guess you didn't care, and I guess I liked that
And when I fell hard you took a step back
Without me, without me, without me
And he's long gone when he's next to me
And I realize the blame is on me
'Cause I knew you were trouble when you walked in
So shame on me now
Flew me to places I'd never been
'Til you put me down, oh
I knew you were trouble when you walked in
So shame on me now
Flew me to places I'd never been
Now I'm lying on the cold hard ground
Oh, oh, trouble, trouble, trouble
Oh, oh, trouble, trouble, trouble
No apologies. He'll never see you cry,
Pretends he doesn't know that he's the reason why.
You're drowning, you're drowning, you're drowning.
Now I heard you moved on from whispers on the street
A new notch in your belt is all I'll ever be
And now I see, now I see, now I see
He was long gone when he met me
And I realize the joke is on me, yeah!
I knew you were trouble when you walked in
So shame on me now
Flew me to places I'd never been
'Til you put me down, oh
I knew you were trouble when you walked in
So shame on me now
Flew me to places I'd never been
Now I'm lying on the cold hard ground
Oh, oh, trouble, trouble, trouble
Oh, oh, trouble, trouble, trouble
And the saddest fear comes creeping in
That you never loved me or her, or anyone, or anything, yeah
I knew you were trouble when you walked in
So shame on me now
Flew me to places I'd never been
'Til you put me down, oh
I knew you were trouble when you walked in (you were right there, you were right there)
So shame on me now
Flew me to places I'd never been
Now I'm lying on the cold hard ground
Oh, oh, trouble, trouble, trouble
Oh, oh, trouble, trouble, trouble
I knew you were trouble when you walked in
Trouble, trouble, trouble
I knew you were trouble when you walked in
Trouble, trouble, trouble
I don't know if you know who you are until you lose who you are.I bet this time of night you're still up.
I bet you're tired from a long hard week.
I bet you're sitting in your chair by the window looking out at the city.
And I bet sometimes you wonder about me.
And I just wanna tell you
It takes everything in me not to call you.
And I wish I could run to you.
And I hope you know that every time I don't
I almost do,
I almost do.
I bet you think I either moved on or hate you
'Cause each time you reach out there's no reply.
I bet it never ever occurred to you that I can't say "Hello" to you
And risk another goodbye.
And I just wanna tell you
It takes everything in me not to call you.
And I wish I could run to you.
And I hope you know that every time I don't
I almost do,
I almost do.
Oh, we made quite a mess, babe.
It's probably better off this way.
And I confess, babe,
In my dreams you're touching my face
And asking me if I wanna try again with you.
And I almost do.
And I just wanna tell you
It takes everything in me not to call you.
And I wish I could run to you.
And I hope you know that every time I don't
I almost do,
I almost do.
I bet this time of night you're still up.
I bet you're tired from a long hard week.
I bet you're sitting in your chair by the window looking out at the city.
And I hope sometimes you wonder about me.
I remember when we broke up the first time
Saying, "This is it, I've had enough," 'cause like
We hadn't seen each other in a month
When you said you needed space. (What?)
Then you come around again and say
"Baby, I miss you and I swear I'm gonna change, trust me."
Remember how that lasted for a day?
I say, "I hate you," we break up, you call me, "I love you."
Ooh, we called it off again last night
But ooh, this time I'm telling you, I'm telling you
We are never ever ever getting back together,
We are never ever ever getting back together,
You go talk to your friends, talk to my friends, talk to me
But we are never ever ever ever getting back together
Like, ever...
I'm really gonna miss you picking fights
And me falling for it screaming that I'm right
And you would hide away and find your peace of mind
With some indie record that's much cooler than mine
Ooh, you called me up again tonight
But ooh, this time I'm telling you, I'm telling you
We are never, ever, ever getting back together
We are never, ever, ever getting back together
You go talk to your friends, talk to my friends, talk to me (talk to me)
But we are never ever ever ever getting back together
Ooh, yeah, ooh yeah, ooh yeah
Oh oh oh
I used to think that we were forever ever
And I used to say, "Never say never..."
Uggg... so he calls me up and he's like, "I still love you,"
And I'm like... "I just... I mean this is exhausting, you know, like,
We are never getting back together. Like, ever"
No!
We are never ever ever getting back together
We are never ever ever getting back together
You go talk to your friends, talk to my friends, talk to me
But we are never ever ever ever getting back together
We, ooh, getting back together, ohhh,
We, ooh, getting back together
You go talk to your friends, talk to my friends, talk to me (talk to me)
But we are never ever ever ever getting back togetherI'm pretty sure we almost broke up last night.
I threw my phone across the room at you.
I was expecting some dramatic turn-away,
But you stayed.
This morning I said we should talk about it.
'Cause I read you should never leave a fight unresolved.
That's when you came in wearing a football helmet and said, "Okay, let's talk."
And I said,
Stay, stay, stay.
I've been lovin' you for quite some time, time, time.
You think that it's funny when I'm mad, mad, mad.
But I think that it's best if we both stay.
Before you I'd only dated self-indulgent takers,
Who took all of their problems out on me.
But you carry my groceries, and now I'm always laughin'.
And I love you because you have given me no choice but to...
Stay, stay, stay.
I've been lovin' you for quite some time, time, time.
You think that it's funny when I'm mad, mad, mad.
But I think that it's best if we both stay, stay, stay, stay.
You took the time to memorize me:
My fears, my hopes, and dreams.
I just like hangin' out with you all the time.
All those times that you didn't leave;
It's been occurring to me I'd like to hang out with you for my whole life.
Stay.
And I'll be loving you for quite some time.
No one else is gonna love me, when I get mad, mad, mad.
So I think that it's best if we both stay, stay, stay, stay, stay, stay.
Stay, stay, stay.
I've been lovin' you for quite some time, time, time.
You think that it's funny when I'm mad, mad, mad.
But I think that it's best if we both stay, stay, stay, stay, stay, stay.
Stay, stay, stay.
I've been lovin' you for quite some time, time, time.
You think that it's funny when I'm mad, mad, mad.
But I think that it's best if we both stay.
That's so fun!I find myself at your door,
Just like all those times before,
I'm not sure how I got there,
All roads—they lead me here.
I imagine you are home,
In your room, all alone,
And you open your eyes into mine,
And everything feels better,
[Both:]
and right before your eyes,
I'm breaking, no past
No reasons why,
Just you and me.
This is the last time I'm asking you this,
Put my name at the top of your list,
This is the last time I'm asking you why,
You break my heart in the blink of an eye, eye, eye.
You find yourself at my door,
Just like all those times before,
You wear your best apology,
But I was there to watch you leave,
And all the times I let you in,
Just for you to go again,
Disappear when you come back,
Everything is better.
and right before your eyes,
I'm aching, no past
Nowhere to hide,
Just you and me...
This is the last time I'm asking you this,
Put my name at the top of your list,
This is the last time I'm asking you why,
You break my heart in the blink of an eye, eye, eye...
This is the last time you tell me I've got it wrong,
This is the last time I say it's been you all along,
This is the last time I let you in my door,
This is the last time, I won't hurt you anymore.
Oh, oh, oh,
This is the last time I'm asking you this,
Put my name at the top of your list,
This is the last time I'm asking you why,
You break my heart in the blink of an eye.
This is the last time I'm asking you,
Last time I'm asking you,
Last time I'm asking you this...I was reminiscing just the other day,
While having coffee all alone and Lord, it took me away.
Back to a first-glance feeling on New York Time.
Back when you fit in my poems like a perfect rhyme.
Took off faster than a green light "Go".
Yeah, you skipped the conversation when you already know.
I left a note on the door with a joke we’d made,
And that was the first day.
And darling, it was good never looking down.
And right there where we stood was holy ground.
Spinning like a girl in a brand new dress,
We had this big wide city all to ourselves.
We blocked the noise with the sound of ‘I need you’,
And for the first time I had something to lose,
And I guess we fell apart in the usual way.
And the story’s got dust on every page,
But sometimes I wonder how you think about it now.
And I see your face in every crowd.
Cause darling, it was good never looking down.
And right there where we stood was holy ground.
Tonight I’m gonna dance for all that we’ve been through.
But I don’t wanna dance if I’m not dancing with you.
Tonight I’m gonna dance like you were in this room.
But I don’t wanna dance if I’m not dancing with you,
It was good never looking down.
And right there where we stood was holy ground.
Tonight I’m gonna dance for all that we’ve been through.
But I don’t wanna dance if I’m not dancing with you.
Tonight I’m gonna dance like you were in this room.
But I don’t wanna dance if I’m not dancing with you.Long handwritten note deep in your pocket
Words, how little they mean when you're a little too late
I stood right by the tracks, your face in a locket
Good girls, hopeful they'll be and long they will wait
We had a beautiful magic love there
What a sad beautiful tragic love affair
In dreams I meet you in warm conversation
We both wake in lonely beds in different cities
And time is taking its sweet time erasing you
And you've got your demons, and, darling, they all look like me
'Cause we had a beautiful magic love there
What a sad beautiful tragic love affair
Distance, timing, breakdown, fighting
Silence, this train runs off its tracks
Kiss me, try to fix it, could you just try to listen?
Hang up, give up, for the life of us we can't get back
A beautiful magic love there
What a sad beautiful tragic, beautiful tragic, beautiful
What we had – a beautiful magic love there
What a sad beautiful tragic love affair
We had a beautiful magic love there
What a sad beautiful tragic love affairNew to town with a made up name in the angel's city,
Chasing fortune and fame.
And the camera flashes, make it look like a dream.
You had it figured out since you were in school.
Everybody loves pretty, everybody loves cool.
So overnight you look like a sixties’ queen.
Another name goes up in lights, like diamonds in the sky.
And they’ll tell you now, you’re the lucky one.
Yeah, they’ll tell you now, you’re the lucky one.
But can you tell me now, you’re the lucky one, oh, oh, oh...
Now it’s big black cars, and Riviera views,
And your lover in the foyer doesn't even know you
And your secrets end up splashed on the news front page.
And they tell you that you’re lucky.
But you’re so confused,
'Cause you don’t feel pretty, you just feel used.
And all the young things line up to take your place.
Another name goes up in lights. You wonder if you’ll make it out alive.
And they’ll tell you now, you’re the lucky one.
Yeah, they’ll tell you now, you’re the lucky one.
Can you tell me now, you’re the lucky one, oh, oh, oh.
It was a few years later, I showed up here.
And they still tell the legend of how you disappeared,
How you took the money and your dignity, and got the hell out.
They say you bought a bunch of land somewhere,
Chose the Rose Garden over Madison Square,
And it took some time, but I understand it now.
‘Cause now my name is up in lights, but I think you got it right,
Let me tell you now, you’re the lucky one.
Let me tell you now, you’re the lucky one.
Let me tell you now, you’re the lucky one, oh, oh, oh.
Yeah they’ll tell you now, you’re the lucky one.
Yeah, they’ll tell you now, you’re the lucky one.
And they’ll tell you now, you’re the lucky one, oh, oh, oh.
Oh, whoa, oh, oh
Drew looks at me, I fake a smile so he won't see
That I want and I'm needing everything that we should be
I'll bet she's beautiful, that girl he talks about,
And she's got everything that I have to live without.
Drew talks to me, I laugh 'cause it's just so funny 
Drew talks to me, I laugh 'cause it's so damn funny
That I can't even see anyone when he's with me
He says he's so in love, he's finally got it right,
I wonder if he knows he's all I think about at night
He's the reason for the teardrops on my guitar
The only thing that keeps me wishing on a wishing star
He's the song in the car I keep singing, don't know why I do
Drew walks by me, can he tell that I can't breathe?
And there he goes, so perfectly,
The kind of flawless I wish I could be
She better hold him tight, give him all her love
Look in those beautiful eyes and know she's lucky 'cause
So I drive home alone.
As I turn out the light
I'll put his picture down
And maybe get some sleep tonight.
'Cause he's the reason for the teardrops on my guitar
The only one who's got enough of me to break my heart
He's the song in the car I keep singing, don't know why I do
He's the time taken up, but there's never enough
And he's all that I need to fall into.
Drew looks at me, I fake a smile so he won't see.All I knew this morning when I woke
Is I know something now, know something now I didn't before.
And all I've seen since eighteen hours ago
Is green eyes and freckles and your smile
In the back of my mind making me feel like
I just wanna know you better, know you better, know you better now
I just wanna know you better, know you better, know you better now
I just wanna know you better, know you better, know you better now
I just wanna know you, know you, know you
'Cause all I know is we said, "Hello."
And your eyes look like coming home
All I know is a simple name
Everything has changed
All I know is you held the door
You'll be mine and I'll be yours
All I know since yesterday is everything has changed
And all my walls stood tall painted blue
And I'll take them down, take them down and open up the door for you
And all I feel in my stomach is butterflies
The beautiful kind, making up for lost time,
Taking flight, making me feel right
Taking flight, making me feel right like
I just wanna know you better, know you better, know you better now
I just wanna know you better, know you better, know you better now
I just wanna know you better, know you better, know you better now
I just wanna know you, know you, know you
'Cause all I know is we said, "Hello."
And your eyes look like coming home
All I know is a simple name
Everything has changed
All I know is you held the door
And you'll be mine and I'll be yours
All I know since yesterday is everything has changed
Come back and tell me why
I'm feeling like I've missed you all this time, oh, oh, oh.
And meet me there tonight
And let me know that it's not all in my mind.
I just wanna know you better, know you better, know you better now
I just wanna know you, know you, know you
All I know is we said, "Hello."
And your eyes look like coming home
All I know is a simple name
Everything has changed
All I know is you held the door
You'll be mine and I'll be yours
All I know since yesterday is everything has changed
All I know is we said, "Hello."
So dust off your highest hopes
All I know is pouring rain and everything has changed
All I know is a new found grace
All my days I'll know your face
All I know since yesterday is everything has changed
I said, "Oh my, what a marvelous tune"
It was the best night, never would forget how he moved.
The whole place was dressed to the nines,
And we were dancing, dancing
Like we're made of starlight
Like we're made of starlight
I met Bobby on the boardwalk, summer of '45
Picked me up late one night out the window,
We were 17 and crazy, running wild, wild
Can't remember what song it was playing when we walked in
The night we snuck into a yacht club party
Pretending to be a duchess and a prince
And I said, "Oh my, what a marvelous tune."
It was the best night, never would forget how he moved.
The whole place was dressed to the nines,
And we were dancing, dancing
Like we're made of starlight, starlight
Like we're made of starlight, starlight
He said, "Look at you, worrying too much about things you can't change.
You'll spend your whole life singing the blues if you keep thinking that way."
He was trying to skip rocks on the ocean, saying to me,
"Don't you see the starlight, starlight?
Don't you dream impossible things?"
Like "Oh my, what a marvelous tune."
It was the best night, never would forget how he moved
The whole place was dressed to the nines,
And we were dancing, dancing
Like we're made of starlight, starlight
Like we're made of starlight, starlight
Ooh ooh he's talking crazy
Ooh ooh dancing with me
Ooh ooh we could get married
Have ten kids and teach them how to dream
Oh my, what a marvelous tune
It was the best night, never would forget how he moved
The whole place was dressed to the nines,
And we were dancing, dancing
Like we're made of starlight, starlight
Like we're made of starlight, starlight
Like we're made of starlight, starlight
Like we dream impossible dreams
Like starlight, starlight
Like we dream impossible dreams
Don't you see the starlight, starlight?
Don't you dream impossible things?Took a deep breath in the mirror
He didn't like it when I wore high heels
But I do
Turn the lock and put my headphones on
He always said he didn't get this song
But I do, I do
Walked in expecting you'd be late
But you got here early and you stand and wave
I walk to you
You pull my chair out and help me in
And you don't know how nice that is
But I do
And you throw your head back laughing like a little kid
I think it's strange that you think I'm funny 'cause he never did
I've been spending the last eight months
Thinking all love ever does is break and burn and end
But on a Wednesday in a cafe I watched it begin again
You said you never met one girl
Who had as many James Taylor records as you
But I do
We tell stories and you don't know why
I'm coming off a little shy
But I do
But you throw your head back laughing like a little kid
I think it's strange that you think I'm funny 'cause he never did
I've been spending the last eight months
Thinking all love ever does is break and burn and end
But on a Wednesday in a cafe I watched it begin again
And we walked down the block to my car and I almost brought him up
But you start to talk about the movies that your family
Watches
Every single Christmas and I want to talk about that
And for the first time what's past is past
'Cause you throw your head back laughing like a little kid
I think it's strange that you think I'm funny 'cause he never did
I've been spending the last eight months
Thinking all love ever does is break and burn and end
But on a Wednesday in a cafe I watched it begin again
But on a Wednesday in a cafe I watched it begin againYou should've been there,
Should've burst through the door,
With that 'baby I'm right here' smile,
And it would've felt like,
A million little shining stars had just aligned,
And I would've been so happy.
Christmas lights glisten,
I've got my eye on the door,
Just waiting for you to walk in,
But the time is ticking,
People ask me how I've been
As I comb back through my memory,
How you said you'd be here,
You said you'd be here.
And it was like slow motion,
Standing there in my party dress,
In red lipstick,
With no one to impress,
And they're all laughing,
As I'm looking around the room,
But there's one thing missing,
And that was the moment I knew.
And the hours pass by,
Now I just wanna be alone,
But your close friends always seem to know
When there's something really wrong,
So they follow me down the hall,
And there in the bathroom,
I try not to fall apart,
And the sinking feeling starts,
As I say hopelessly,
"He said he'd be here."
And it was like slow motion,
Standing there in my party dress,
In red lipstick,
With no one to impress,
And they're all laughing,
And asking me about you,
But there was one thing missing,
And that was the moment I knew.
What do you say
When tears are streaming down your face
In front of everyone you know?
And what do you do when the one
Who means the most to you
Is the one who didn't show?
You should've been here.
And I would've been so happy.
And it was like slow motion,
Standing there in my party dress,
In red lipstick,
With no one to impress,
And they're all standing around me singing
"Happy birthday to you",
But there was one thing missing,
And that was the moment I knew.
Ooh, I knew.
Ooh,
You called me later,
And said, "I'm sorry, I didn't make it,"
And I said, "I'm sorry too,"
And that was the moment I knew.You said it in a simple way,
4 AM, the second day,
How strange that I don't know you at all.
Stumbled through the long goodbye,
One last kiss, then catch your flight,
Right when I was just about to fall
I told myself, "Don't get attached,"
But in my mind I play it back,
Spinning faster than the plane that took you...
And this is when the feeling sinks in,
I don't wanna miss you like this,
Come back... be here, come back... be here.
I guess you're in New York today,
I don't wanna need you this way,
Come back... be here, come back... be here.
The delicate beginning rush,
The feeling you can know so much,
Without knowing anything at all.
And now that I can't put this down,
If I had known what I'd known now,
I never would have played so nonchalant.
Taxi cabs and busy streets,
That never bring you back to me,
I can't help but wish you took me with you...
And this is when the feeling sinks in,
I don't wanna miss you like this,
Come back... be here, come back... be here.
I guess you're in London today,
I don't wanna need you this way,
Come back... be here, come back... be here.
This is falling in love in the cruelest way,
This is falling for you when you are worlds away.
New York... be here.
But you're in London and I break down,
'Cause it's not fair that you're not around.
This is when the feeling sinks in,
I don't wanna miss you like this,
Come back... be here, come back... be here.
I guess you're in New York today,
And I don't wanna need you this way,
Come back... be here, come back... be here.
I don't wanna miss you like this.
Come back... be here.
Come back... be here.Don't look at me,
You've got a girl at home,
And everybody knows that,
Everybody knows that,
Uh, uh
Don't look at me,
You've got a girl at home,
And everybody knows that.
I don't even know her,
But I feel a responsibility,
To do what's upstanding and right,
It's kinda like a code, yeah,
And you've been getting closer and closer,
And crossing so many lines.
And it would be a fine proposition,
If I was a stupid girl,
But honey I am no-one's exception,
This I have previously learned.
So don't look at me,
You've got a girl at home,
And everybody knows that,
Everybody knows that,
Uh, uh
Don't look at me,
You've got a girl at home,
And everybody knows that,
Everybody knows that,
I see you turn off your phone,
And now you got me alone,
And I say,
Don't look at me,
You've got a girl at home,
And everybody knows that,
Everybody knows that.
I just wanna make sure,
You understand perfectly,
You're the kind of man who makes me sad,
While she waits up,
You chase down the newest thing,
And take for granted what you have.
And it would be a fine proposition,
If I was a stupid girl,
And yeah I might go with it,
If I hadn't once been just like her.
Don't look at me,
You've got a girl at home,
And everybody knows that,
Everybody knows that,
Uh, uh
Don't look at me,
You've got a girl at home,
And everybody knows that,
Everybody knows that,
I see you turn off your phone,
And now you've got me alone,
And I say,
Don't look at me,
You've got a girl at home,
And everybody knows that,
Everybody knows that.
Call a cab,
Lose my number,
You're about to lose your girl,
Call a cab,
Lose my number,
Let's consider this lesson learned.
Don't look at me,
You've got a girl at home,
And everybody knows that,
Everybody knows that,
Uh, uh
Don't look at me,
You've got a girl at home,
And everybody knows that,
Everybody knows that,
Wanna see you pick up your phone,
And tell her you're coming home,
Don't look at me,
You've got a girl at home,
And everybody knows that,
Everybody knows that,
Uh, uh
Don't look at me,
You've got a girl at home,
And everybody knows that,
Everybody knows that.
It would be a fine proposition,
If I hadn't once been just like her.Walking through a crowd
The village is aglow
Kaleidoscope of loud
Heartbeats under coats
Everybody here
Wanted something more
Searching for a sound we hadn't
Heard before
And it said
Welcome to New York
It's been waiting for you
Welcome to New York
Welcome to New York
Welcome to New York
It's been waiting for you
Welcome to New York
Welcome to New York
It's a new soundtrack
I could dance to this beat, beat
Forevermore
The lights are so bright
But they never blind me, me
Welcome to New York
It's been waiting for you
Welcome to New York
When we first dropped our bags on
Apartment floors
Took our broken hearts
Put them in a drawer
Everybody here was someone else
Before
And you can want who you want
Boys and boys and
Girls and girls
Welcome to New York
It's been waiting for you
Welcome to New York
Welcome to New York
Welcome to New York
It's been waiting for you
Welcome to New York
Welcome to New York
It's a new soundtrack
I could dance to this beat, beat
Forevermore
The lights are so bright
But they never blind me, me
Welcome to New York (New York)
It's been waiting for you
Welcome to New York
Welcome to New York
Like any great love it keeps you
Guessing
Like any real love
It's ever changing
Like any true love
It drives you crazy
But you know you wouldn't
Change anything anything
Anything
Welcome to New York
It's been waiting for you
Welcome to New York
Welcome to New York
Welcome to New York
It's been waiting for you
Welcome to New York
Welcome to New York
It's a new soundtrack
I could dance to this beat
The lights are so bright
But they never blind me
Welcome to New York
New soundtrack
It's been waiting for you
Welcome to New York
The lights are so bright
But they never blind me
Welcome to New York
So bright
They never blind me
Welcome to New York
Welcome to New YorkNice to meet you, where you been?
I could show you incredible things
Magic, madness, heaven, sin
Saw you there and I thought
Oh my God, look at that face
You look like my next mistake
Love's a game, wanna play?
New money, suit and tie
I can read you like a magazine
Ain't it funny, rumors fly
And I know you heard about me
So hey, let's be friends
I'm dying to see how this one ends
Grab your passport and my hand
I can make the bad guys good for a weekend
So it's gonna be forever
Or it's gonna go down in flames
You can tell me when it's over
If the high was worth the pain
Got a long list of ex-lovers
They'll tell you I'm insane
'Cause you know I love the players
And you love the game
'Cause we're young and we're reckless
We'll take this way too far
It'll leave you breathless
Or with a nasty scar
Got a long list of ex-lovers
They'll tell you I'm insane
But I've got a blank space, baby
And I'll write your name
Cherry lips, crystal skies
I could show you incredible things
Stolen kisses, pretty lies
You're the King, baby, I'm your Queen
Find out what you want
Be that girl for a month
Wait, the worst is yet to come, oh no
Screaming, crying, perfect storms
I can make all the tables turn
Rose garden filled with thorns
Keep you second guessing like
"Oh my God, who is she?"
I get drunk on jealousy
But you'll come back each time you leave
'Cause, darling, I'm a nightmare dressed like a daydream
So it's gonna be forever
Or it's gonna go down in flames
You can tell me when it's over
If the high was worth the pain
Got a long list of ex-lovers
They'll tell you I'm insane
'Cause you know I love the players
And you love the game
'Cause we're young and we're reckless
We'll take this way too far
It'll leave you breathless
Or with a nasty scar
Got a long list of ex-lovers
They'll tell you I'm insane
But I've got a blank space, baby
And I'll write your name
Boys only want love if it's torture
Don't say I didn't say, I didn't warn ya
Boys only want love if it's torture
Don't say I didn't say, I didn't warn ya
So it's gonna be forever
Or it's gonna go down in flames
You can tell me when it's over
If the high was worth the pain
Got a long list of ex-lovers
They'll tell you I'm insane
'Cause you know I love the players
And you love the game
'Cause we're young and we're reckless
We'll take this way too far
It'll leave you breathless
Or with a nasty scar
Got a long list of ex-lovers
They'll tell you I'm insane
But I've got a blank space, baby
And I'll write your name
Midnight,
You come and pick me up, no headlights
A long drive,
Could end in burning flames or paradise
Fade into view, oh, it's been a while since I have even heard from you (heard from you)
I should just tell you to leave 'cause I
Know exactly where it leads but I
Watch us go 'round and 'round each time
You got that James Dean daydream look in your eye
And I got that red lip classic thing that you like
And when we go crashing down, we come back every time
'Cause we never go out of style
We never go out of style
You got that long hair, slicked back, white t-shirt
And I got that good girl faith and a tight little skirt
And when we go crashing down, we come back every time
'Cause we never go out of style
We never go out of style.
So it goes
He can't keep his wild eyes on the road
Takes me home
Lights are off, he's taking off his coat, hmm, yeah.
I say, "I heard, oh, that you've been out and about with some other girl, some other girl."
He says, "What you've heard is true but I
Can't stop thinking about you," and I...
I said, "I've been there, too, a few times."
'Cause you got that James Dean daydream look in your eye
And I got that red lip classic thing that you like
And when we go crashing down, we come back every time
'Cause we never go out of style
We never go out of style
You got that long hair, slicked back, white t-shirt
And I got that good girl faith and a tight little skirt (tight little skirt)
And when we go crashing down, we come back every time
'Cause we never go out of style
We never go out of style
Take me home
Just take me home, yeah.
Just take me home
(out of style)
You got that James Dean daydream look in your eye
And I got that red lip classic thing that you like
And when we go crashing down, we come back every time
'Cause we never go out of style
We never go out of styleLooking at it now
It all seems so simple
We were lying on your couch
I remember
You took a Polaroid of us
Then discovered (then discovered)
The rest of the world was black and white
But we were in screaming color
And I remember thinking…
Are we out of the woods yet?
Are we out of the woods yet?
Are we out of the woods yet?
Are we out of the woods?
Are we in the clear yet?
Are we in the clear yet?
Are we in the clear yet?
In the clear yet?
Good
Are we out of the woods?
Looking at it now
Last December (last December)
We were built to fall apart
Then fall back together (back together)
Your necklace hanging from my neck
The night we couldn't quite forget
When we decided (we decided)
To move the furniture so we could dance,
Baby, like we stood a chance
Two paper airplanes flying, flying, flying
And I remember thinkin'
(Are we out of the woods?!)
Remember when you hit the brakes too soon?
Twenty stitches in the hospital room
When you started cryin', baby, I did, too
But when the sun came up, I was lookin' at you
Remember when we couldn't take the heat
I walked out and said, "I'm settin' you free,"
But the monsters turned out to be just trees
And when the sun came up, you were lookin' at me
You were lookin' at me
You were lookin' at me,
I remember, oh, I rememberYou have a way of coming easily to me
And when you take, you take the very best of me
So I start a fight cause I need to feel something
And you do what you want cause I'm not what you wanted
Oh what a shame, what a rainy ending given to a perfect day
Just walk away, no use defending words that you will never say
And now that I'm sitting here thinking it through
I've never been anywhere cold as you
You put up walls and paint them all a shade of gray
And I stood there loving you and wished them all away
And you come away with a great little story
Of a mess of a dreamer with the nerve to adore you
You never did give a damn thing honey but I cried, cried for you
And I know you wouldn't have told nobody if I died, died for you
(Died for you)
Oh what a shame, what a rainy ending given to a perfect day
Every smile you fake is so condescending
Counting all the scars you made
And now that I'm sitting here thinking it through
I've never been anywhere cold as you
People like you always want back the love they gave away
And people like me wanna believe you when you say you've changed
The more I think about it now the less I know
All I know is that you drove us off the road
Stay
Hey, all you had to do was stay
Had me in the palm of your hand
Then why'd you have to go and lock me out when I let you in
Stay, hey, now you say you want it
Back now that it's just too late
Well, it could've been easy
All you had to do was stay
All you had to do was stay
All you had to do was stay
All you had to do was stay
All you had to do was stay
Here you are now, calling me up, but I don't know what to say
I've been picking up the pieces of the mess you made
People like you always want back the love they pushed aside
But people like me are gone forever when you say goodbye
Stay
Hey, all you had to do was stay
Had me in the palm of your hand
Then why'd you have to go and lock me out when I let you in
Stay, hey, now you say you want it
Back now that it's just too late
Well, it could've been easy
All you had to do was stay
All you had to do was stay
All you had to do was stay
All you had to do was stay
Let me remind
You this was what you wanted
You ended it
You were all I wanted
But not like this
Not like this
Not like this
Oh, all you had to do was stay
Hey, all you had to do was stay
Had me in the palm of your hand
Then why'd you have to go and lock me out when I let you in
Stay, hey, now you say you want it
Back now that it's just too late
Well, it could've been easy
All you had to do was stay
Hey, all you had to do was stay
Had me in the palm of your hand
Then why'd you have to go and lock me out when I let you in
Stay, hey, now you say you want it
Back now that it's just too late
Well, it could've been easy
All you had to do was stay
All you had to do was stay
All you had to do was stay
All you had to do was stay
All you had to do was stayIt's 2 AM in your car
Windows down, you pass my street, the memories start
You say it's in the past, you drive straight ahead
You're thinking that I hate you now
'Cause you still don't know what I never said
I wish you would come back,
Wish I never hung up the phone like I did.
And I wish you knew that I'll never forget you as long as I live.
And I wish you were right here, right now, it's all good.
I wish you would
It's 2 AM in my room.
Headlights pass the window pane, I think of you.
We're a crooked love in a straight line down.
Makes you wanna run and hide
Then it makes you turn right back around
I wish you would come back,
Wish I never hung up the phone like I did.
I wish you knew that I'll never forget you as long as I live.
And I wish you were right here, right now, it's all good.
I wish you would
I wish we could go back
And remember what we were fighting for.
And I wish you knew that I miss you too much to be mad anymore
And I wish you were right here, right now, it's all good.
I wish you would
I, I, I, I, I, I wish, I wish
I, I, I, I, I, I wish, I wish
I, I, I, I, I, I wish, I wish.
You always knew how to push my buttons
You give me everything and nothing
This mad mad love makes you come running
To stand back where you stood
I wish you would, I wish you would
I wish you would, I wish you would
I, I, I, I, I, I wish, I wish...
2 AM, here we are
See your face, hear my voice in the dark
We're a crooked love in a straight line down
Makes you wanna run and hide
But it made us turn right back around
I wish you would come back
Wish I never hung up the phone like I did
I wish you knew that I'll never forget you as long as I live.
And I wish you were right here, right now, it's all good.
I wish you would
I wish you would come back,
Wish I never hung up the phone like I did.
And I wish you knew that I'll never forget you as long as I live.
And I wish you were right here, right now, it's all good.
I wish you would
I wish we could go back
And remember what we were fighting for.
And I wish you knew that I miss you too much to be mad anymore.
And I wish you were right here, right now, it's all good.
I wish you would
You always knew how to push my buttons
You give me everything and nothing
This mad mad love makes you come running
To stand back where you stood
I wish you would, I wish you would
I wish you would, I wish you would
I, I, I, I, I, I wish, I wish
I, I, I, I, I, I wish, I wish
I, I, I, I, I, I wish, I wish you would'Cause, baby, now we got bad blood
You know it used to be mad love
So take a look what you've done
'Cause, baby, now we got bad blood
Hey
Now we got problems
And I don't think we can solve them
You made a really deep cut
And, baby, now we got bad blood
Hey
Did you have to do this? I was thinking that you could be trusted
Did you have to ruin what was shiny? Now it's all rusted
Did you have to hit me, where I'm weak? Baby, I couldn't breathe
And rub it in so deep, salt in the wound like you're laughing right at me
Oh, it's so sad to think about the good times, you and I
'Cause, baby, now we got bad blood
You know it used to be mad love
So take a look what you've done
'Cause, baby, now we got bad blood
Hey
Now we got problems
And I don't think we can solve them
You made a really deep cut
And, baby, now we got bad blood
Hey
Did you think we'd be fine? Still got scars on my back from your knife
So don't think it's in the past, these kinda wounds they last and they last.
Now did you think it all through? All these things will catch up to you
And time can heal but this won't, so if you're coming my way, just don't
Oh, it's so sad to think about the good times, you and I
'Cause, baby, now we got bad blood
You know it used to be mad love
So take a look what you've done
'Cause, baby, now we got bad blood
Hey
Now we got problems
And I don't think we can solve them
You made a really deep cut
And, baby, now we got bad blood
Hey
Band-aids don't fix bullet holes
You say sorry just for show
If you live like that, you live with ghosts (ghosts)
Band-aids don't fix bullet holes (hey)
You say sorry just for show (hey)
If you live like that, you live with ghosts (hey)
Mhmmm
If you love like that blood runs cold
'Cause, baby, now we got bad blood
You know it used to be mad love (mad love)
So take a look what you've done
'Cause, baby, now we got bad blood
Hey
Now we got problems
And I don't think we can solve them (think we can solve them)
You made a really deep cut
And, baby, now we got bad blood
(Hey)
'Cause, baby, now we got bad blood
You know it used to be mad love
So take a look what you've done (look what you've done)
'Cause, baby, now we got bad blood
Hey
Now we got problems
And I don't think we can solve them
You made a really deep cut
And, baby, now we got bad blood
HeyHe said, "Let's get out of this town.
Drive out of the city, away from the crowds."
I thought heaven can't help me now.
Nothing lasts forever, but this is gonna take me down
He's so tall and handsome as hell
He's so bad but he does it so well
I can see the end as it begins
My one condition is
Say you'll remember me
Standing in a nice dress,
Staring at the sunset, babe
Red lips and rosy cheeks
Say you'll see me again
Even if it's just in your
Wildest dreams, ah-ha oh,
Wildest dreams, ah-ha oh.
I said, "No one has to know what we do."
His hands are in my hair, his clothes are in my room
And his voice is a familiar sound,
Nothing lasts forever but this is getting good now
He's so tall and handsome as hell
He's so bad but he does it so well
And when we've had our very last kiss
My last request is
Say you'll remember me
Standing in a nice dress,
Staring at the sunset, babe
Red lips and rosy cheeks
Say you'll see me again
Even if it's just in your
Wildest dreams, ah-ha oh,
Wildest dreams, ah-ha oh.
You see me in hindsight
Tangled up with you all night
Burning it down
Someday when you leave me
I bet these memories
Follow you around
You'll see me in hindsight
Tangled up with you all night
Burning it down
Someday when you leave me
I bet these memories
Follow you around
Say you'll remember me
Standing in a nice dress,
Staring at the sunset, babe
Red lips and rosy cheeks
Say you'll see me again
Even if it's just pretend
Say you'll remember me
Standing in a nice dress,
Staring at the sunset, babe
Red lips and rosy cheeks
Say you'll see me again
Even if it's just in your (just pretend, just pretend)
Wildest dreams, ah-ha oh
In your wildest dreams, ah-ha oh
(even if it's just in your wildest dreams) ah-ha
In your wildest dreams, ah-ha.Oh oh oh.
Oh-oh.
Stand there like a ghost shaking from the rain (rain).
She'll open up the door and say, "Are you insane ('ane)?"
Say it's been a long 6 months
And you were too afraid to tell her what you want.
And that's how it works.
That's how you get the girl.
And then you say,
"I want you for worse or for better,
I would wait forever and ever,
Broke your heart, I'll put it back together.
I would wait forever and ever."
And that's how it works
It's how you get the girl, girl...
Oh.
And that's how it works
It's how you get the girl, girl...
Remind her how it used to be (yeah, yeah)
With pictures in frames of kisses on cheeks (cheeks)
Tell her how you must have lost your mind. (uh-uh)
When you left her all alone, and never told her why (why).
And that's how it works.
That's how you lost the girl.
And now you say,
"I want you for worse or for better,
I would wait forever and ever (ever and ever),
Broke your heart, I'll put it back together (together).
I would wait forever and ever (ever and ever)."
And that's how it works
It's how you get the girl, girl...
Oh.
And that's how it works
It's how you get the girl, girl... (Yeah, yeah)
And you could know (oh-oh oh oh)
That I don't want you to go oh-oh..
Remind me how it used to be.
Pictures in frames of kisses on cheeks.
And say you want me.
Yeah...
And then you say,
"I want you for worse or for better (for worse or for better),
I would wait forever and ever,
Broke your heart, I'll put it back together.
I want you forever and ever."
[4x]
And that's how it works
It's how you get the girl, girl.
Oh.
That's how it works.
That's how you got the girl.
Clear blue water, high tide came and brought you in
And I could go on and on, on and on, and I will
Skies grew darker, currents swept you out again
And you were just gone and gone, gone and gone
In silent screams,
In wildest dreams
I never dreamed of this
This love is good, this love is bad
This love is alive back from the dead
These hands had to let it go free
And this love came back to me
Tossing, turning, struggled through the night with someone new
And I could go on and on, on and on
Lantern burning, flickered in my mind for only you
But you're still gone, gone, gone
Been losing grip,
On sinking ships
You showed up just in time
This love is good, this love is bad
This love is alive back from the dead
These hands had to let it go free
And this love came back to me
This love left a permanent mark
This love is glowing in the dark
These hands had to let it go free
And this love came back to me
This love, this love, this love, this love... 
Your kiss, my cheek, I watched you leave
Your smile, my ghost, I fell to my knees
When you're young you just run
But you come back to what you need
This love is good, this love is bad
This love is alive back from the dead
These hands had to let it go free
And this love came back to me
This love left a permanent mark
This love is glowing in the dark
These hands had to let it go free
And this love came back to me
This love, this love, this love, this love...You stand with your hand on my waist line
It's a scene and we're out here in plain sight
I can hear them whisper as we pass by
It's a bad sign, bad sign
Something happens when everybody finds out
See the vultures circling dark clouds
Love's a fragile little flame, it could burn out
It could burn out 
Cause they got the cages, they got the boxes
And guns
They are the hunters, we are the foxes
And we run
Baby, I know places we won't be found 
And they'll be chasing their tails tryin' to track us down
Cause I, I know places we can hide
I know places, I know places
Lights flash and we'll run for the fences
Let them say what they want, we won't hear it
Loose lips sink ships all the damn time
Not this time 
Just grab my hand and don't ever drop it
My love
They are the hunters, we are the foxes
And we run
Baby, I know places we won't be found 
And they'll be chasing their tails tryin' to track us down
Cause I, I know places we can hide
I know places 
They are the hunters, we are the foxes
And we run
Just grab my hand and don't ever drop it
My love
Baby, I know places we won't be found 
And they'll be chasing their tails tryin' to track us down
Cause I, I know places we can hide
I know places
They take their shots, but we're bulletproof
I know places
And you know for me, it's always you
I know places
In the dead of night, your eyes so green
I know places
And I know for you, it's always me
I know placesThe drought was the very worst
When the flowers that we'd grown together died of thirst
It was months, and months of back and forth
You're still all over me like a wine-stained dress I can't wear anymore
Hung my head as I lost the war, and the sky turned black like a perfect storm
Rain came pouring down when I was drowning
That's when I could finally breathe
And by morning gone was any trace of you,
I think I am finally clean
There was nothing left to do
When the butterflies turned to dust that covered my whole room
So I punched a hole in the roof
Let the flood carry away all my pictures of you
The water filled my lungs, I screamed so loud but no one heard a thing
Rain came pouring down when I was drowning
That's when I could finally breathe
And by morning, gone was any trace of you,
I think I am finally clean
I think I am finally clean
Said I think I am finally clean
10 months sober, I must admit
Just because you're clean don't mean you don't miss it
10 months older, I won't give in
Now that I'm clean I'm never gonna risk it
The drought was the very worst
When the flowers that we'd grown together died of thirst
Rain came pouring down when I was drowning
That's when I could finally breathe
And by morning gone was any trace of you,
I think I am finally clean
Rain came pouring down when I was drowning
That's when I could finally breathe
And by morning gone was any trace of you
I think I am finally clean
Finally clean
Think I'm finally clean
Think I'm finally cleanFlashing lights and we
Took a wrong turn and we
Fell down a rabbit hole.
You held on tight to me
'Cause nothing's as it seems
I'm spinning out of control.
Didn't they tell us don't rush into things?
Didn't you flash your green eyes at me?
Haven't you heard what becomes of curious minds?
Oh
Didn't it all seem new and exciting?
I felt your arms twisting around me
I should have slept with one eye open at night.
We found wonderland
You and I got lost in it
And we pretended it could last forever
Eh
We found wonderland
You and I got lost in it
And life was never worse but never better
Eh eh
Eh 
In wonderland
Eh 
In wonderland
Eh 
In wonderland
Eh 
In wonderland
So we went on our way
Too in love to think straight
All alone or so it seemed.
But there were strangers watching
And whispers turned to talking
And talking turned to screams.
Oh
Didn't they tell us don't rush into things?
Didn't you flash your green eyes at me?
Didn't you calm my fears with a Cheshire cat smile?
Oh
Didn't it all seem new and exciting?
I felt your arms twisting around me
It's all fun and games 'til somebody loses their mind.
But darling, we found wonderland
You and I got lost in it
And we pretended it could last forever
Eh
We found wonderland
You and I got lost in it
And life was never worse but never better
Eh eh
Eh 
In wonderland
Eh 
In wonderland
Eh 
In wonderland
Eh 
In wonderland
I reached for you but you were gone
I knew I had to go back home
You search the world for something else to make you feel like what we had
And in the end in wonderland we both went mad.
Oh
We found wonderland
You and I got lost in it
And we pretended it could last forever (last forever)
Eh eh
We found wonderland
You and I got lost in it (got lost in it)
And life was never worse but never better (never better)
Eh eh
We found wonderland
You and I got lost in it (wonderland)
And we pretended it could last forever (in wonderland)
We found wonderland
You and I got lost in it (wonderland)
And life was never worse but never better
In wonderlandOne look, dark room
Meant just for you
Time moved too fast
You play it back
Buttons on a coat
Lighthearted joke
No proof, not much
But you saw enough
Small talk, he drives
Coffee at midnight
The light reflects
The chain on your neck
He says, "Look up."
And your shoulders brush
No proof, one touch
But you felt enough
You can hear it in the silence, silence
You can feel it on the way home, way home
You could see it with the lights out, lights out
You are in love, true love
You are in love
Morning, his place
Burnt toast, Sunday
You keep his shirt
He keeps his word
And for once you let go
Of your fears and your ghosts
One step, not much
But it said enough
You kiss on sidewalks
You fight then you talk
One night he wakes
Strange look on his face
Pauses, then says.
"You're my best friend."
And you knew what it was
He is in love
You can hear it in the silence, silence
You can feel it on the way home, way home
You could see it with the lights out, lights out
You are in love, true love
And so it goes
You two are dancing in a snow globe 'round and 'round
And he keeps a picture of you in his office downtown
And you understand now why they lost their minds and fought the wars
And why I spent my whole life trying to put it into words
'Cause you can hear it in the silence
You can feel it on the way home
You could see it with the lights out
You are in love, true love
You're in love
You can hear it in the silence, silence
You can feel it on the way home, way home
You could see it with the lights out, lights out
You are in love, true love
You're in love
You can hear it in the silence, silence
You can feel it on the way home, way home
You can see it with the lights out, lights out
You are in love, true love
You're in love
I didn't know what I would find
When I went looking for a reason, I know
I didn't read between the lines
And, baby, I've got nowhere to go
I tried to take the road less traveled by
But nothing seems to work the first few times
Am I right?
So how can I ever try to be better?
Nobody ever lets me in
I can still see you, this ain't the best view
On the outside looking in
I've been a lot of lonely places
I've never been on the outside
You saw me there, but never knew
I would give it all up to be
A part of this, a part of you
And now it's all too late so you see
You could've helped if you had wanted to
But no one notices until it's too
Late to do anything
So how can I ever try to be better?
Nobody ever lets me in
I can still see you, this ain't the best view
On the outside looking in
I've been a lot of lonely places
I've never been on the outsideWe're all bored, we're all so tired of everything
We wait for trains that just aren't coming
We show off our different scarlet letters—
Trust me, mine is better
We're so young but we're on the road to ruin
We play dumb but we know exactly what we're doing
We cry tears of mascara in the bathroom
Honey, life is just a classroom
'Cause, baby, I could build a castle
Out of all the bricks they threw at me
And every day is like a battle
But every night with us is like a dream
Baby, we're the new romantics
Come on, come along with me
Heart break is the national anthem
We sing it proudly
We are too busy dancing
To get knocked off our feet
Baby, we're the new romantics
The best people in life are free
We're all here, the lights and noise are blinding
We hang back, it's all in the timing
It's poker, he can't see it in my face
But I'm about to play my Ace
We need love, but all we want is danger
We team up then switch sides like a record changer
The rumors are terrible and cruel
But, honey, most of them are true
'Cause, baby, I could build a castle
Out of all the bricks they threw at me
And every day is like a battle
But every night with us is like a dream
Baby, we're the new romantics
Come on, come along with me
Heart break is the national anthem
We sing it proudly
We are too busy dancing
To get knocked off our feet
Baby, we're the new romantics
The best people in life are free
So come on, come along with me
The best people in life are free
Please take my hand and
Please take me dancing and
Please leave me stranded,
It's so romantic
'Cause, baby, I could build a castle
Out of all the bricks they threw at me
And every day is like a battle
But every night with us is like a dream
'Cause, baby, I could build a castle
Out of all the bricks they threw at me
And every day is like a battle
But every night with us is like a dream
Baby, we're the new romantics
Come on, come along with me
Heart break is the national anthem
We sing it proudly
We are too busy dancing
To get knocked off our feet
Baby, we're the new romantics
The best people in life are freeRed is such an interesting color to correlate with emotion, because it's on both ends of the spectrum. On one end you have happiness, falling in love, infatuation with someone, passion, all that. On the other end, you've got obsession, jealousy, danger, fear, anger and frustration. 
A lot of people ask me, 'How did you have the courage to walk up to record labels when you were 12 or 13 and jump right into the music industry?' It's because I knew I could never feel the kind of rejection that I felt in middle school. Because in the music industry, if they're gonna say no to you, at least they're gonna be polite about it. 
My definition of country music is really pretty simple. It's when someone sings about their life and what they know, from an authentic place. 
My definition of country music is really pretty simple. It's when someone sings about their life and what they know, from an authentic place. 
Relationships are like traffic lights. And I just have this theory that I can only exist in a relationship if it's a green light. 
I love the scents of winter! For me, it's all about the feeling you get when you smell pumpkin spice, cinnamon, nutmeg, gingerbread and spruce. 
I can't deal with someone wanting to take a relationship backward or needing space or cheating on you. 
Factoring in millions of people when I'm writing a song is not a good idea. I don't ever do it. 
Silence speaks so much louder than screaming tantrums. Never give anyone an excuse to say that you're crazy. 
You know, Katie Couric is one of my favorite people. 
I think the tiniest little thing can change the course of your day, which can change the course of your year, which can change who you are. 
We don't need to share the same opinions as others, but we need to be respectful. 
When you walk out onstage in front of 65,000 people, it can bring you to tears. 
One of my big fears is people saying my songs are all starting to sound the same. 
I wouldn't wear tiny amounts of clothing in my real life so I don't think it's necessary to wear that stuff in photo-shoots.
One of my big goals as a human being is to continue to write what's really happening to me, even if it's a tough pill to swallow for people around me... I do fear that if I ever were to have someone in my life who mattered, I would second-guess every one of my lyrics. 
My friends tease me about the fact that if someone seems bad or shady or like they have a secret, I find them incredibly interesting. 
I leave the genre labeling to other people. I really do. If I were to think too hard about it, that would stifle you creatively. If you think too hard about who other people want you to be as an artist, it stops you from being who you want to be as an artist. 
I have this really high priority on happiness and finding something to be happy about. 
I am alone a lot, which is good. I need that time to just be alone after a long day, just decompress. So, I go to either my house or the hotel, or my apartment, or whatever - wherever I am, I go home and I watch TV and I sit there, with my cat, and I just watch TV or go online, check my emails. 
Sitting on a bedroom floor crying is something that makes you feel really alone. If someone's singing about that feeling, you feel bonded to that person. That's the only way I can find an explanation for why 55,000 people would want to come see me sing. 
I know that a Christmas tree farm in Pennsylvania is about the most random place for a country singer to come from, but I had an awesome childhood. 
At some point, you grow out of being attracted to that flame that burns you over and over and over again. 
I don't know if I could do this with the same energy, and in the same way - all the costume changes and glitter and hair and makeup - all the time. When I'm in my 50s, I kind of think I'll want to be in a garden. 
I know that a Christmas tree farm in Pennsylvania is about the most random place for a country singer to come from, but I had an awesome childhood. 
I don't know how to have a normal relationship because I try to act normal and love from a normal place and live a normal life, but there is sort of an abnormal magnifying glass, like telescope lens, on everything that happens. 
I love the ending of a movie where two people end up together. Preferably if there's rain and an airport or running or a confession of love. 
When you are missing someone, time seems to move slower, and when I'm falling in love with someone, time seems to be moving faster. 
When you are missing someone, time seems to move slower, and when I'm falling in love with someone, time seems to be moving faster. 
I feel the emotion that life conjures up and the songs I write get me closer to my feelings and realising who I am. It's a natural process. 
I remember auditioning for record labels and having them tell me, 'Well, the country-radio demographic is the thirty-five-year-old female housewife. Give us a song that relates to the thirty-five-year-old female, and we'll talk.' 
I don't like it when people who are young act like they're 40. That's taking too much on. Putting up a shield and trying to act like you're so mature or whatever - I don't try to act mature. Some people might say I'm mature for my age, but it's not something I'm trying to do, you know? I'm just me. 
I think I first realized I wanted to be in country music and be an artist when I was 10. And I started dragging my parents to festivals, and fairs, and karaoke contests, and I did that for about a year before I came to Nashville for the first time. I was 11 and I had this demo CD of me singing Dixie Chicks and Leanne Rimes songs. 
I love making new friends and I respect people for a lot of different reasons. 
You have people come into your life shockingly and surprisingly. You have losses that you never thought you'd experience. You have rejection and you have learn how to deal with that and how to get up the next day and go on with it. 
I approach love differently now that I know it's hard for it to work out. 
If you cry over a guy, then your friends can't date him. It can't even be considered. 
I get really restless when I haven't worked for a day and a half. I have a recurring dream that people are lined up next to my bed, waiting for autographs and taking pictures of me! 
I haven't had that one great love, which is good. I don't want that to be in the past - I want it to be in the future. 
I would love to continue in music, with writing... but I am not the kind of person who will hang around if I start to become irrelevant. If that happens, I will bow down gracefully, raise my kids, and have a garden. And I am going to let my hair go gray when I am older. I don't need to be blonde when I'm 60! 
It feels kinda weird being back in a high school cause I haven't been in a high school for about a year. So um, it's kinda interesting coming back, and y'know seeing the lockers, with all the signs, the handmade signs, so being in high school again is a little bit strange but in a good way. 
When you're singing you can hear the echo of people in the audience singing every single word with you, and that was that big dream that I had for myself. It's happening. 
For everything I do, I think about a 6-year-old girl and her mom that I saw at my concert last night. I think about what those two individuals would think if I were at a club last night. I never want to be arrested, and I never want to get a DUI, those are my moral values. 
Fans are my favorite thing in the world. I've never been the type of artist who has that line drawn between their friends and their fans. The line's always been really blurred for me. I'll hang out with them after the show. I'll hang out with them before the show. If I see them in the mall, I'll stand there and talk to them for 10 minutes. 
As soon as I accomplish one goal, I replace it with another one. I try not to get too far ahead of myself. I just say to myself, 'All right, well, I'd like to headline a tour,' and then when I get there, we'll see what my next goal is. 
My mom and I have always been really close. She's always been the friend that was always there. There were times when, in middle school and junior high, I didn't have a lot of friends. But my mom was always my friend. Always.
I love it when people say things to me in public and want to meet me, because I want to meet them! Early on, my manager told me, 'If you want to sell 500,000 records, then go out there and meet 500,000 people.' 
For me, when I picture the person I want to end up with, I don't think about what their career is, or what they look like. I picture the feeling I get when I'm with them. 
When I was 8 years old, it mattered what my favorite singer said and wore and expressed opinions about. 
All of my favorite people - people I really trust - none of them were cool in their younger years. 
I get so excited when a song I wrote that's very personal to me goes No. 1 and I look down and see people singing the words back to me.
What makes me happy is just curling up in with my mom in her bed and watching a marathon of 'CSI' and 'Grey's Anatomy' episodes with pints of ice cream. 
When I'm getting to know someone, I look for someone who has passions that I respect, like his career. Someone who loves what he does is really attractive. 
I often get ideas for songs on the tour bus at odd times. Like at 6am when no one is around, I'd just write. 
I have this fear of falling in front of large groups of people. That's why I tend not to wear heels. 
When you hear people making hateful comments, stand up to them. Point out what a waste it is to hate, and you could open their eyes. 
“Your lucky enough to be different, never change” 
“The way you walk, way you talk, way you say my name; it's beautiful, wonderful, don't you ever change.” 
“The only one who's got enough of me to break my heart.” 
“I've apparently been the victim of growing up, which apparently happens to all of us at one point or another. It's been going on for quite some time now, without me knowing it. I've found that growing up can mean a lot of things. For me, it doesn't mean I should become somebody completely new and stop loving the things I used to love. It means I've just added more things to my list. Like for example, I'm still beyond obsessed with the winter season and I still start putting up strings of lights in September. I still love sparkles and grocery shopping and really old cats that are only nice to you half the time. I still love writing in my journal and wearing dresses all the time and staring at chandeliers. But some new things I've fallen in love with -- mismatched everything. Mismatched chairs, mismatched colors, mismatched personalities. I love spraying perfumes I used to wear when I was in high school. It brings me back to the days of trying to get a close parking spot at school, trying to get noticed by soccer players, and trying to figure out how to avoid doing or saying anything uncool, and wishing every minute of every day that one day maybe I'd get a chance to win a Grammy. Or something crazy and out of reach like that. ;) I love old buildings with the paint chipping off the walls and my dad's stories about college. I love the freedom of living alone, but I also love things that make me feel seven again. Back then naivety was the norm and skepticism was a foreign language, and I just think every once in a while you need fries and a chocolate milkshake and your mom. I love picking up a cookbook and closing my eyes and opening it to a random page, then attempting to make that recipe. I've loved my fans from the very first day, but they've said things and done things recently that make me feel like they're my friends -- more now than ever before. I'll never go a day without thinking about our memories together.” 
“We should love, not fall in love, because everything that falls, gets broken.” 
“A few years have gone and come around when we were sittin' at our favorite spot in town and you looked at me, got down on one knee. Take me back to the time when we walked down the aisle; the whole town came and our mammas cried. And you said "I do.", and I did, too. Take me home where we met so many years before; we'll rock our babies on the very front porch. After all this time, you and I. And I'll be eighty-seven you'll be eighty-nine, I'll still look at you like the stars that shine. In the sky. Oh, my my my.” 
“These days, I've been trying to classify my thoughts into two categories: "Things I can change," and "Things I can't." It seems to help me sort through what to really stress about. But there I go again, over-planning and over-organizing my over-thinking! I write songs about my adventures and misadventures, most of which concern love. Love is a tricky business. But if it wasn't, I wouldn't be so enthralled with it. Lately I've come to a wonderful realization that makes me even more fascinated by it: I have no idea what I'm doing when it comes to love. No one does! There's no pattern to it, except that it happens to all of us, of course. I can't plan for it. I can't predict how it'll end up. Because love is unpredictable and it's frustrating and it's tragic and it's beautiful. And even though there's no way to feel like I'm an expert at it, it's worth writing songs about -- more than anything else I've ever experienced in my life.” 
“So to you, or anyone else who has spent four minutes on me in some way-- listening to just one song, or watching one of my videos….Thank you. I love you like I love sparkles and having the last word. And that's real love.” 
“There are two ways you can go with pain: You can let it destroy you or you can use it as fuel to drive you… ” 
“Don’t worry. You may think you’ll never get over it. But you also thought it would last forever.” 
“Unique and different is the new generation of beautiful… 
You dont have to be like everybody else. In fact I don’t think you should.” 
“Never believe anyone who tells you that you don't deserve what you want.” 
“Live your life like you're 80 looking back on your teenager years. You know if your dad calls you at eight in the morning and asks if you want to go out for breakfast. As a teenager you're like no, I want to sleep. But as an eighty year old looking back you have that breakfast with your dad. It just little things like that, that helped me when I was a teenager in terms of making choices you won't regret.” 
“Keeping your emotions all locked up is something that’s unfair to you. When you clearly know how you feel. You should say it.” 
“Beauty is sincerity.There are so many different ways someone can be beautiful.” 
“I rode an elevator with a guy who was whistling the tune of 'this is the song that never ends'. Putting that on me? Come on dude..” 
“I think I fell in love with words before I fell in love with music.” 
“Never never never compare yourself to the beautiful girls. There's always someone gorgeous who will make you feel like you're not. It's a total confidence buster!” 
“That’s always the hardest thing when someone completely has you fooled so much, that you think they’re just never going to hurt you, then they do. That’s when you get the worst heartbreak.” 
“When I was in high school, I remember seeing girls crying in the bathroom every Monday about what they did that weekend. I never wanted to be that girl crying in the bathroom.” 
“When we meet someone and we fall in love we don’t ever imagine that it’s going to end.” 
“In any relationship each person should support the other; they should lift the other up.” 
“Be yourself. There is no one better.” 
“My parents raised me to never feel like I was entitled to success.That you have to work for it. You have to work so hard for it. And sometimes then you don't even get where you need to go.” 
“The words. I love words. I love to write. Being an artist is what I love.” 
“So . . . middle school? Awkward. Having a hobby that's different from everyone else's? Awkward. Singing the national anthem on weekends instead of going to sleepovers? More awkward. Braces? Awkward. Gain a lot of weight before you hit the growth spurt? Awkward. Frizzy hair, don't embrace the curls yet? Awkward. Try to straighten it? Awkward!So many phases!” 
“Living alone, you can do so many fantastic things I’ve learned. You can like, walk around and have so many conversations with yourself and sing your thoughts. I think I’m the only one that does that…” 
“I think that personality traits that come through when somebody is really sincere is what makes them beautiful.” 
“When you’re singing you can hear the echo of people in the audience singing every single word with you, and that was that big dream that I had for myself. It’s happening.” 
“See, the thing is I didn't think that that song would get much attention because it's such a personal song to me. I just wrote it about my childhood, and I didn't know how that would read on an album. But it's been everybody's favorite song. I didn't tell my mom. It was a total secret. So I wrote it in secret and then decided to record it secretly, so she had no idea that the song was recorded. My producers sent me the track and I synched it up to all my baby videos and I played it for her one Christmas Eve, and she bawled her eyes out. She didn't even think that it was my song. She didn't think there was any way for me to record a song without her knowing.” 
“I write songs that are like diary entries. I have to do it to feel sane.” 
“My attitude has always been if you get better and you see success, that should motivate you to even work harder, so that's kinda how I approach everything.” 
“I'm not going to be that person who wants one thing their whole life, and then gets it and complains about.” 
“There are videos where I would go approaching strangers and sing the songs from 'The Lion King. I would have been about four years, and I came running up to people on the beach, strangers that I chose at random and began to sing, and my family never knew where I was, they were always looking for me, trying to imagine who I was harassing this time .” 
“Lady gagas "hair" is my theme song.” 
“Dude, my hair is like an architectural structure. It’s like… a building.” 
“My career always involved being the person in charge of what I was portraying to people. "I never wanted to be an image of something I didn't believe in, an image that somebody else had put together. The idea of that just really scared me, more than the idea of failing.” 
“My parents have always been very respectful of me so I’ve always been really respectful of them. My worst fear is to let them down so that’s why I don’t misbehave.” 
“She's like a sister. People say we're such opposites, but that's what makes us such good friends. She's incredibly blunt. I love that about her. If some guy has said or done something to me she doesn't like, she'll grab my cell phone and say, 'I'm deleting his number.” 
“I realized that I have very long arms so I can take the perfect arm-length picture with fans” 
“Mom is calculated, logical, business-minded; kind but very, very direct. Makes you better by giving you these little pointers but doesn’t baby you. My dad is a Chatty Cathy, the social butterfly; friendly; knows everybody in the whole world by six degrees; tells me that every performance is the greatest he’s ever seen, every new outfit is the coolest. Constant cheerleader. It’s cool to have pie-in-the-sky Dad, down-to-earth Mom.” 
“I discover poetry when I was in elementary school and I was so fascinated by it. Because I realised if you get the right amount of syllables and the right amount of words, in the right rhyme scheme and you put it all together. You make words just bounce of a page.” 
“When I think about the things that cause me pain or the things that cause me trouble or frustration, it's not people asking for my autograph; it's people breaking my heart. That happens to you whether you've sold millions of records or whether you're taking classes at college. You're going to believe people when they say that they love you. I don't leave out details when I write songs about that. I try to make my songs as personal as possible because, ultimately, my music started out as just trying to turn my diary entries into something that was a piece of music. And that has never changed.” 
“Having room to run and having just the space to use your imagination and create stories out of everyday life, I think that had a lot to do with me wanting write. And write songs” 
“I can remember her singing, the thrill of it," she said. "She was one of my first inspirations.The people around me provided all the inspiration I needed. Everything I wrote (at that time) came from that experience, what I observed happening around me.” 
“There's always that seventh-grade girl who looks like she's 25. And you're like, How do you do it? How do you do it, Sarah Jaxheimer?Why is your hair always so shiny?!” 
“My mom and I have always been really close. She’s always been the friend that was always there.” 
“I wouldn’t wear tiny amounts of clothing in my real life, so I don’t think it’s necessary to wear that stuff in photo shoots.” 
“My dad is adorably optimistic, positive, pie-in-the-sky. He thinks every new song I write is my best. He sells T-shirts at my merchandise stands and hands out guitar picks to fans.” 
“I watched their reactions and emotions, especially to understand what was what I was doing wrong. But then I realized that if I could see these people and take note of everything I saw, I could write a good song. ” 
“I didn't have friends. No one talked to me. I used to go to the Wyndcroft School (nationally recognized for academic excellence) in Pottstown, and when I moved to Wyomissing, I didn't know anybody.” 
“Hendersonville is home because I live there and I work there. But when I come back to Pennsylvania and see the crowds and the landscape, it's such a rush. It just feels like home.” 
“I got to play Kim in Bye Bye Birdie, Sandy in Grease, and Maria in The Sound of Music. And it was so much fun for me, but the thing that I looked forward to the most was at the cast parties. After the shows they had karaoke machines set up and that's when I could sing country music.” 
“There was one solo; but it was a guy. It was this character called 'Freddy Fast Talk' and it was the bad guy. I didn't care, I was like I will dress up like a guy, I want to sing that song. And so I remembered we drew on eyebrows, and I had like a moustache,and we put all my hair up in this hat. So I dressed like a guy and sang the solo.” 
“I began absolutely non-stop tormenting my parents, begging them on a daily basis to move there.” 
“Wasn't it beautiful when you believed in everything?” 
“I grew up on a Christmas tree farm in Reading, PA. It was the most magical fun childhood. We had grape arbours and we would make jam with my mom. My dad would go to work and he'd come home. He'd clean out stalls and fix split-row fences.” 
“Yes! I did [grow up on a Christmas Tree farm], so this is a good season for me. I was too young to help with the hauling of the trees up the hills and putting them onto cars. So, it was my job to pull off the preying mantis pods off of the Christmas trees. The problem with that is if you leave them on there, people bring them into their house. I forgot to check one time and they hatched all over these people’s house. And there were hundreds of thousands of them. And they had little kids, and they couldn’t kill of them because that’d be a bad Christmas.” 
“Mom is a planner, an organizer. She's very strong and practical. She's the person that'll tell me if I ever start to change my personality. The balance of the two of them created my personality.” 
“I always thought I'd be really fun to sing a song with Miley.” 
My fans don't feel like I hold anything back from them. They know whatever I'm going through now, they'll hear about it on a record someday. They'll hear the real story. There's a little bit of lag time. It's not as instant as going on a gossip blog. But it's much more accurate. 
“Beauty is sincerity. There are so many ways, different ways someone can be beautiful.”
“I’ve never felt like there’s just one way to be beautiful.”
“Never compare yourself to the beautiful girls. There’s always someone gorgeous who will make you feel like you’re not.”
“Unique and different is the new generation of beautiful. You don’t have to be like everyone else.”
“Anything you put your mind to and add your imagination into, can make your life a lot better and a lot more fun.”
“Happiness and confidence are the prettiest things you can wear.”
“I’m beginning to think that you don’t find happiness from living your life looking ahead or back… that you find it when you look around.”
“In life and love, you learn that there comes a time to let go and move on.”
“In life, you learn lessons. And sometimes you learn them the hard way. Sometimes you learn them too late.”
“In real life, saying the right thing at the right moment is beyond crucial. Most of us fear reaching the end of our lives and looking back, regretting moments we didn’t speak up. When we didn’t say “I love you.” When we should’ve said “I’m sorry”. When we didn’t stand up for ourselves or someone who needed help.”
“Just because something is over doesn’t mean it wasn’t incredibly beautiful. Because another lesson I’ve learned is not all stories have a happy ending and you have to learn to deal with that.”
“Life is a ruthless game unless you play it good and play it right.”
“Life is like walking you take one step at a time.”
“Life isn’t how to survive the storm, it’s about how to dance in the rain.”
“The trials and tribulations in your life make you stronger.”
“The world doesn’t owe you anything. You have to work for everything you get and you have to appreciate every bit of success the world gives you.”
“We don’t need to share the same opinions as others, but we need to be respectful.”
“You have people come into your life shockingly and surprisingly. You have losses that you never thought you’d experience. You have rejection and you have to learn  how to deal with that and how to get up the next day and go on with it.” 
“But no matter what love throws at you, you have to believe in it. You have to believe in love stories and prince charmings and happily ever after. That's why I write these songs. Because I think love is FEARLESS.” 
“I don’t think there’s such a thing as falling in love too easily or falling too fast. Or loving someone too soon or trusting someone too soon...I’ve never treated two relationships the same. Some people move you and some people don’t.”
“It’s the most maddening, beautiful, magical, horrible, painful, wonderful joyous thing in the world, love.”
“I think the perfection of love is when it’s not perfect.”
“I write a lot of songs about love and I think that’s because to me love seems like this huge complicated thing. But it seems like every once in a while, two people get it figured out, two people get it right. And so I think the rest of us, we walk about daydreaming about what might be like. To find that one great love, where all of a sudden everything that seemed to be so complicated, became simple.”
“Love always ends differently and it always begins differently.”
“Love is fascinating. Wishing for it, pinning for it and the anger that comes when you lose it. I used to think that I could figure out some pattern to love, but there is no pattern. Absolutely nothing is predictable in love.”
“Love is unpredictable and it’s frustrating and it’s tragic and it’s beautiful.”
“Love will find you when you least expect it.”
“My favorite thing in life is writing about life, specifically the parts of life concerning love. Because as far as I’m concerned, love is absolutely everything.”
 “Real love still happens sometimes. It's not just something we make up when you're nine. I have to believe that. You do too.” 
“The way I look at love is you have to follow it, and fall hard, if you fall hard. You have to forget what everyone else thinks. It has to be an us-against-the- world mentality. You have to make it work by prioritizing, and by falling in love really fast, without thinking too hard. If I think too hard about a relationship I’ll talk myself out of it. I have rules for a lot of areas in my life. Love is not going to be one of them.”
“There is a general rule that I always go by, and it’s that fall for who you fall for. Whatever small issue you get hung up on, whether it’s because they’re shorter than you, younger than you or they live far away- if you really are crazy about someone, none of that matters.”
 “To truly love is to have the courage to walk away and let the other person who wishes to be free go no matter how much it hurts.” 
“At some point you have to forget about grudges because they only hurt.” 
“Be that strong girl that everyone knew would make it through the worst, be that fearless girl, the one who would dare to do anything, be that independent girl who didn’t need a man; be that girl who never backed down.” 
“Be yourself, chase your dreams, and just never say never. That’s the best advice I could ever give to someone.”
“Being fearless isn’t being 100% not fearful, it’s being terrified but you jump anyway.”
“Don’t ever regret being honest. Period.”
“Fearless is getting back up and fighting for what you want over and over again…even though every time you’ve tried before you’ve lost.”
“For everything I do, I think about a 6-year-old and her mom that I saw at my concert last night. I think about what those two individuals would think if I were at a club last night. I never want to be arrested, and I never want to be arrested, and I never want to get a DUI those are my moral values.”
“Giving up doesn’t always mean you are weak, sometimes you’re just strong enough to let go.”
“If somebody hurts you, it’s okay to cry a river but remember to build a bridge and get over it.”
“If you’re lucky enough to be different, never change.
“If you’re lucky enough to find something that you love, and you have a shot at it, don’t stop, don’t put it down.”
“I believe when it comes to love, there’s something intangible about who we are attracted to.”
“I’ve questioned everything about myself, every step of the way. You have to have the same amount of fear and self-doubt as you do hope and blind optimism.”
“I wish all teenagers can filter through songs instead of turning to drugs and alcohol.”
“Just be yourself, there is no one better.”
“Keeping your emotions all locked up is something that’s unfair to you. When you clearly know how you feel, you should say it.”
“Live your life like you're 80 looking back on your teenager years. You know if your dad calls you at eight in the morning and asks if you want to go out for breakfast. As a teenager you're like no, I want to sleep. But as an eighty year old looking back you have that breakfast with your dad. It just little things like that, that helped me when I was a teenager in terms of making choices you won't regret.” 
“Never believe anyone who says you don’t deserve what you want.”
“No matter what happens in life, be good to people. Being good to people is a wonderful legacy to leave behind.”
“There are two ways you can go with pain: You can let it destroy you or you can use it as fuel to drive you.”
“What I’ve learned is not to change who you are, because eventually you’re going to run out of new things to become.””
“To me, Fearless is not the absence of fear. It’s not being completely unafraid. To me, Fearless is having fears. Fearless is having doubts. Lots of them. To me, Fearless is living in spite of those things that scare you to death.”
“Words can break someone into a million pieces, but they can also put them back together. I hope you use yours for good, because the only words you’ll regret more than the ones left unsaid are the ones you use to intentionally hurt someone.”
“You can’t have a better tomorrow if you keep thinking about yesterday.”
“You have to be happy with who you are and the choices you make. If you don’t like yourself, you’ll never be truly happy.”
“You have to stop looking in the mirror and realize that you’re living for yourself, not others.”
“You only get many firsts, each one is a blessing.”
“People haven’t always been there for me but music has.”
“People like music when they’re in love, but they don’t need it as much. You need music when you’re missing someone or you’re pinning for someone or you’re forgetting someone or you’re trying to process what just happened.”
“For me, Genres are a way of categorizing music. But it doesn’t‎’t have to define you. It doesn’t have to limit you.”
“I feel in my music I can be a rebel. I can say things I wouldn’t say in real life.”
“I’ve always felt music is the only way to give instantaneous moment the feel of slow motion. To romanticize it and glorify it and give it a soundtrack and a rhythm.”
“Music is my shining light, my favorite thing in the world. To get me to stop doing it for one second would be difficult!”
“My definition of country music is really simple. It’s when someone sings about their life and what they know, from an authentic place.”
“Nobody in country music “made it” the same way. It’s all different. There’s no blueprint for success, and sometimes you just have to work at it.”
“If you’re horrible to me, I’m going to write a song about it and you won’t like it. That’s how I operate.”
“I have no idea what I’m doing when it comes to love. No one does! There’s no pattern to it, except that it happens to all of us, of course. I can’t plan for it; I can’t predict how it will end up.”
“I love all the girls who have my song on their myspaces. I love the people who come to my shows and put the pictures on here. I love the people at those shows who sing along with me. I love reading your stories in emails, some so touching they've given me chills. I love every single person who has wanted my autograph, because for the life of me I never really thought it would mean something to someone for me to write my name down. I love the little girls who stand in line with their mothers like I used to do. That was me. I love the couple who danced to my song at their wedding. Every comment, letter, and message. I love people who listen to the radio. I love every single person who is reading this, because you've let me into your life.” “I love you all so much, I just wanted you to know.” 
“I’d rather be at home and eat ice cream than go out and get wasted.”
“I’m not complicated. My complications come out in my songs. All you need to do to be my friend is like me.”
“I still love sparkles and grocery shopping and really old cats that are only nice to you half the time. I still love writing in my journal and wearing dresses all the time and staring at chandeliers.”
“I’m always going to be a hopeless romantic. Always.”
“I’m intimidated by the fear of being average.”
“I’ve always been a hugger. If we all hugged more, the world would be a better place.”
“I’ve found growing up can mean a lot of things. For me, it doesn’t mean I should become somebody completely new and stop loving the things I used to love. It means I’ve added more things on my list.”
“I’ve never been shy or secretive with the fact that if you walk into my life, you may be walking onto a record.”
“I want a guy who takes charge, but lets me have my say once in a while.”
“I want to be an over-achiever, and I want to be known for the good things in life.”
“I would love to continue in music, with writing… but I am not the kind of person who will hang around if I start to become irrelevant. If that happens, I will bow down gracefully, raise my kids, and have a garden. And I am going to let my hair go gray when I am older.  I don’t need to be blonde when I’m 60!”
“I’ve wanted one thing for me whole life and I’m not going to be that girl who wants one thing her whole life then gets it and complains.”
“I never want to change so much that people can’t recognize me.”
“I suffer from girlnextdooritis where a guy is friends with you and that’s it.”
“I write songs to help me understand life a little more. I write songs to get past things that cause me pain. And I write songs because sometimes life makes more sense to me when it’s being sung in a chorus. And when I can write in a verse.”
“So to you, or anyone else who has spent four minutes on me in some way-- listening to just one song, or watching one of my videos….Thank you. I love you like I love sparkles and having the last word. And that's real love.” 
“As I grow up, the lessons I learn in love and relationships and how we treat each other are hopefully maturing-maturing.”
“A good relationship is all about balance and chemistry.”
“In a relationship each person should support each other. They should lift each other up.”
“You need to be happy with yourself or you’ll never be able to be happy in a relationship.”The cool thing about reading is that when you read a short story or you read something that takes your mind and expands where your thoughts can go, that's powerful.
Anything you put your mind to and add your imagination into can make your life a lot better and a lot more fun.
My head's never really quiet. The only time I can get it to turn off is if I watch 'CSI' or 'Law & Order,' where I have to follow the crime. If I can't turn my head off during that, I know I've really got a problem.
Writing 'We Are Never Getting Back Together' was one of the most hilarious experiences I have ever had in the studio because it just happened so naturally.
Part of me feels you can't say you were truly in love if it didn't last. If I end up getting married and having kids, that's when I'll know it's real - because it lasted.
A letdown is worth a few songs. A heartbreak is worth a few albums.
I don't think there's an option for me to fall in love slowly or at medium speed. I either do, or I don't.
If I think too hard about a relationship, I'll talk myself out of it. 
I try to read as much as I can. I try to read an informative article every day. I try to stay read up on our world issues. 
I have rules for a lot of areas of my life. Love is not going to be one of them. 
I think who you are in school really sticks with you. 
If you are lucky enough to find something that you love, and you have a shot at being good at it, don't stop, don't put it down.
When you say 'control freak' and 'OCD' and 'organized,' that suggests someone who's cold in nature, and I'm just not. Like, I'm really open when it comes to letting people in. But I just like my house to be neat, and I don't like to make big messes that would hurt people.
For me, genres are a way for people to easily categorize music. But it doesn't have to define you. It doesn't have to limit you.
You can make a board for all the goals you want in your life with the pictures on it, and that's great, daydreaming is wonderful, but you can never plan your future
I'm never in the same place for more than, like, three days at a time. Things can change from one minute to the next.
I have so many playlists full of Rihanna, Nicki Minaj, Lil Wayne, Chris Brown.
I think, a lot of times when you meet someone, you feel like you need to appear like you're not interested in them so that they'll be more interested in you. But what happens when you start showing him that you actually like him? What's he gonna do then? Play the tape forward; how do you keep a guy like that? I don't want to sign up for that.
I'm a girls' girl. I have guy friends, but the problem with having guy friends is, like, I always get linked to them, and they'll end up in a slideshow of people I've apparently dated on the Internet.
My audience has really become a very diverse group of people. It's not just 15-year-old girls. That's kind of what allows me to write from all the different places I want to write from.
When I'm in management meetings when we're deciding my future, those decisions are left up to me. I'm the one who has to go out and fulfill all these obligations, so I should be able to choose which ones I do or not. That's the part of my life where I feel most in control.
You can draw inspiration from anything. If you're a good storyteller, you can take a dirty look somebody gives you, or if a guy you used to have flirtations with starts dating a new girl, or somebody you're casually talking to says something that makes you so mad - you can create an entire scenario around that.
I heard that when Christina Aguilera went back to her prom, people, like, booed her. I can't imagine going through that. If you know that's going to happen, why put yourself in that situation? I'd rather play for 20,000 screaming people, you know?
I've never thought about any kind of prejudice about women in country music because I never felt like it affected me. I was fortunate enough to come about in a time when I didn't feel that kind of energy at all, and it was always my theory that if you want to play in the same ballgame as the boys, you've got to work as hard as them.
As supportive as my hometown is, in my high school, there are people who would probably walk up to me and punch me in the face. There's a select few that will never like me. They don't like what I stand for. They don't like somebody who stands for being sober, who stands for anything happy. They're going to be negative no matter what.
I've found that men I've dated who are in the same business can be really competitive. I've found a great group of girlfriends in the same business who aren't competitive, but a few times guys have started comparing careers and it has been... challenging. 
When I go to a restaurant, yeah, I know that a line is probably going to form in front of the table, but didn't I always wish for that? Yeah, I did.
I think Kenny Chesney or Garth Brooks would be the coolest duet partners. I look up to them so much for their work ethics.
I think the first thing you should know is that nobody in country music 'made it' the same way. It's all different. There's no blueprint for success, and sometimes you just have to work at it.
'Love Story' is actually about a guy that I almost dated. But when I introduced him to my family and my friends, they all said they didn't like him. All of them!
So many girls come up and say to me, 'I have never listened to country music in my life. I didn't even know my town had a country-music station. Then I got your record, and now I'm obsessed.' That's the coolest compliment to me.
I've been singing Shakira songs in front of my bathroom mirror into my hairbrush forever. It's like a daily routine.
I am completely fascinated by the differences and comparisons between real life and fairy tales because we're raised as little girls to think that we're a princess and that Prince Charming is going to sweep us off our feet. 
I have so many indie bands on my iPod. What I don't really understand is the attitude that if a band is unknown, they're good, and if they get fans, then you move on to the next band.
I cap myself when I shop; I don't like to spend extravagant amounts on clothes. But, I do get lent clothes for events, it's scary to wear something so expensive, but I feel really pampered.
When I'm writing a record, I kind of don't listen to much music. Just because I want to be inspired solely on the emotion; just based on how it feels.
Since I was old enough to understand what a songwriter/producer is, I've had a curiosity about how Max Martin creates what he creates. I wanted to see that happen. I wanted to be there. I wanted to learn from him.
I've been a huge fan of Chris Martin forever; it'd be awesome to work with him. He's really kind, and he's been really encouraging when we've met.
Since I was old enough to understand what a songwriter/producer is, I've had a curiosity about how Max Martin creates what he creates. I wanted to see that happen. I wanted to be there. I wanted to learn from him. 
Most of my songs have names of people I've met or are dear to me. There are people who have privacy issues and about people knowing about their private life. But for me, I like to include few special names and few details about them to make the song very special to me.
I'm 5'11, so when I wear heels, it's definitely a really good view that I have. I'm, like, 6'2 when I wear heels, so I tend to wear cowboy boots a lot.
I don't like to feel like I'm in a club when I'm in my car and I turn on the radio. Anything that ceases to be a song and just sounds like house music kind of stresses me out.
The only way I hear gossip is if it's big enough and loud enough for my friends to bring it up to me. Or if it's, like, a big untrue ordeal from my publicist - and she hates making that phone call!
I would love to sign on to do a movie if it was the right role and if it was the right script, because I would be taking time away from music to tell a big grand story, and spend all of my time and pouring all of my emotions into being someone else. So for me to do that, it would have to be a story worth telling.
Sitting on a bedroom floor crying is something that makes you feel really alone. If someone's singing about that feeling, you feel bonded to that person.
One element of Madonna's career that really takes center stage is how many times she's reinvented herself. It's easier to stay in one look, one comfort zone, one musical style. It's inspiring to see someone whose only predictable quality is being unpredictable.
I don't mind being pale. In high school, it seemed like everybody cared about being tan all year round, but I haven't really thought about it since then. I don't go to a tanning bed, and I get bored when I lay out. I put sunscreen on when I'm in the sun, and sometimes I get tan, but I don't really think about it very much.
I never give advice unless someone asks me for it. One thing I've learned, and possibly the only advice I have to give, is to not be that person giving out unsolicited advice based on your own personal experience.
I'm the girl who - I call it girl-next-door-itis - the hot guy is friends with and gets all his relationship advice from but never considers dating.
My confidence is easy to shake. I am very well aware of all of my flaws. I am aware of all the insecurities that I have. 
I really like Lady GaGa and everything she is for her fans.
My style advice to other girls is to be experimental but always have a 'home base' and stick with your comfort style.
I don't have a type. I don't have a specific kind of human being. It's just kind of an X-factor of sorts. Everybody I've ever dated has been a case-by-case situation.
I'm always afraid of failing. I have to quiet that fear if I'm going to get up in the morning.
Songs for me are like a message in a bottle. You send them out to the world, and maybe the person who you feel that way about will hear about it someday.
I'm a Sagittarius, and one of our major qualities is that we're blindly optimistic.
I've been my mom's kitchen helper since I was a little kid. 
When I figured out how to work my grill, it was quite a moment. I discovered that summer is a completely different experience when you know how to grill.
My absolute favorite meal in Nashville is sweet-potato pancakes at Pancake Pantry.
I still have mixed feelings about what growing up is - this thing that happens to everyone, so I've heard.
I don't like to feel like I'm some fragile package that has to be shipped by high-priority mail and handled with white gloves.
Even if you're happy with the life you've chosen, you're still curious about the other options.
When I was younger we had a grape arbor, and my mom would go out and pick grapes and make grape jam in the sink - boil it, put it in jars, and give it away as gifts.
I am getting to the point where the only love worth being in is the love worth singing about.
It's kind of exhilarating, walking through a crazy, insane mob. The most miraculous process is watching a song go from a tiny idea in the middle of the night to something that 55,000 people are singing back to you.
When I was a teenager, my biggest lessons came from Kenny Chesney, Tim McGraw, George Strait, Rascal Flatts and Brad Paisley. I learned so much from opening up for those artists, and it also taught me how to treat your opening acts and make them feel like they're part of a family, not just a tour.
My favorite thing in life is writing about life, specifically the parts of life concerning love. Because, as far as I'm concerned, love is absolutely everything.
I have to work really hard to get the record deal - I have to spend years at it to get good. I have to practice to be good at guitar.
Guarding your heart and protecting your dignity are a little bit more important than clarifying the emotions of someone who's only texting you back three words. I've learned that from trying to figure out people who don't deserve to be figured out.
If there's a pregnancy rumor, people will find out it's not true when you wind up not being pregnant, like nine months from now, and if there's a house rumor, they'll find out it's not true when you are actively not ever spotted at that house.
I think who you are in school really sticks with you. I don't ever feel like the cool kid at the party, ever. It's like, 'Smile and be nice to everybody, because you were not invited to be here.'
It never mattered to me that people in school didn't think that country music was cool, and they made fun of me for it - though it did matter to me that I was not wearing the clothes that everybody was wearing at that moment. But at some point, I was just like, 'I like wearing sundresses and cowboy boots.'
I look out at the stadiums full of people and see them all knowing the words to songs I wrote. And curling their hair! I remember straightening my hair because I wanted to be like everybody else, and now the fact that anybody would emulate what I do? It's just funny. And wonderful.
I didn't always have 14,000 people wanting to hang out with me on a Saturday night.
I always wanted to know, and I always used to daydream, about what it would be like to stand on a really big stage and sing songs for a lot of people, songs that I had written... Daydreaming was kind of my No. 1 thing when I was little, because I didn't have much of a social life going on. 
I love being a part of the country-music community. 
Country radio is much more like a family than any other group of people that I've met. 
I felt like my favorite writers have almost musical hooks in their work, whether it's poetry or a hook at the end of a chapter that makes you want to read the next one. And I think that my favorite writers definitely have something musical about what they do, in saying something so relatable and universal and so simple.
I've written all my songs on every single one of my records, and that's what's been fun about looking back. 
I've always written songs the same way. You learn different tricks - you learn craft, you learn structure, all that - as you go.
I put out one album one week, and I'm already worried about the next one. I feel a lot of emotion throughout the course of a day. But not to the point where you need to be worried about me.
Some days I totally appreciate everything that's happening to me, and some days I feel everyone's waiting for me to mess up.
For me, 'risky' is revealing what really happened in my life through music. Risky is writing confessional songs and telling the true story about a person with enough details so everyone knows who that person is.
I think everyone should approach relationships from the perspective of playing it straight and giving someone the benefit of the doubt. Until he establishes that this is a game. And if it's a game, you need to win. The best thing to do is just walk away from the table.
My experience with songwriting is usually so confessional, it's so drawn from my own life and my own stories.
One thing I've tried to never do is make wish lists. I try to have a very steppingstone mentality about this whole thing, where as soon as you make one step you visualize the next step, not five steps ahead.
I've never been shy or secretive with the fact that if you walk into my life, you may be walking onto a record.
I can't deal with someone wanting to take a relationship backward or needing space or cheating on you. It's a conscious thing; it's a common-sense thing. 
When I'm 40 and nobody wants to see me in a sparkly dress anymore, I'll be like: 'Cool, I'll just go in the studio and write songs for kids.'
Sometimes I write about my own life. And sometimes I write about situations I see my friends going through. Sometimes I write about a scene I saw in a movie. I take inspiration from all different places.
I think people inspire me the most. If I meet a person who is incredibly complex, and all of a sudden, I start thinking in rhymes, that person could be a muse. 
Here's what I've learned about deal-breakers. If you have enough natural chemistry with someone, you overlook every single thing that you said would break the deal
I never read one hateful thing said about me by some 12 year old. So I got to live an actual life. And I've kept that mentality. Just because there's a hurricane going on around you doesn't mean you have to open the window and look at it.
Songs are my diaries; they always have been. You have to put your trust in everyone because putting down those real, personal details and thoughts that make a song authentic also opens you right up. I am constantly misunderstood; a lot of people just don't get me.
I think that when you're making your way up in the music industry, you have all these heroes and the reasons why they are your heroes. As soon as you get into the industry, your guidelines change a little bit. For me, my heroes now are great people first and great artists second.
When we're falling in love or out of it, that's when we most need a song that says how we feel. Yeah, I write a lot of songs about boys. And I'm very happy to do that.
I let people fill in the blanks on their own. If they want to think about their ex, that's fine. If they want to think about maybe who one of my exes is, then that's fine. And it might not be right, because I'm the only one who knows what these songs are really about. It's the one shred of privacy I have in the matter.
Music is changing so quickly, and the landscape of the music industry itself is changing so quickly, that everything new, like Spotify, all feels to me a bit like a grand experiment.
No matter what happens in life, be good to people. Being good to people is a wonderful legacy to leave behind.
I've always felt music is the only way to give an instantaneous moment the feel of slow motion. To romanticise it and glorify it and give it a soundtrack and a rhythm. 
I don't ever feel like the cool kid at the party, ever. It's like, 'Smile and be nice to everybody, because you were not invited to be here.'
I think about food literally all day every day. It's a thing
