Host: I’m asking, Taylor, how she gets used to this.  Fans have been going CRAZY here in Time Square for this young woman, Taylor Swift.  They lined up all night just to catch a glimpse of her.  She’s been out signing autographs.  We’re going to talk to Taylor in just a moment, but first, a look at her career.

(Brief review of her career.  Discussed is each of her three albums, and introduction to her next endeavor; her first fragrance, Wonderstruck)

Host:  And in case you can’t tell, we are thrilled to have Taylor Swift back with us this morning.  You don’t even flinch anymore.  I’m like over here ‘cause of all the screaming and yelling and you’re just so accustomed..

Taylor Swift: It’s amazing! They’re so awesome! Um.. It’s been a really amazing tour, because every time we go on stage, it’s.. it’s that.  So it’s been amazing.

Host:  It really has been.  And I know, gosh, the 98 stops you’ve had already while you come up to Thanksgiving.  But first of all, let me say to you, you don’t remember, but we do, we remember talking to you for the first time.  You were 14 years old.  We went to Nashville.

TS: I remember that!!  That was like the biggest deal of my whole life then.

Host: Well we have a clip.  Let’s take a look.  Here’s Taylor.

(Shows clip from first interview in 2004)

Host:  Do you know what is so cool?  You were gonna play Bluebird café THAT night.

TS: That was the night I played the show at Bluebird Café that ended up getting me a record deal.  So it’s really crazy to have that on film.  Especially with you guys.  You’ve been so amazing to me since beyond… before day 1, so thank you.

Host: No.  It’s been easy to do.  And so you go from so excited to play Bluebird Café, which is a legendary place and a lot of stars, to Billboard.  Getting this honor from Billboard Magazine, the youngest to ever do that.  When you heard about that, what was your initial reaction?

TS:  When I heard about Billboard Woman of the Year, I was just… It was such an exciting, amazing honor.  It’s one of those jumping up and down moments, where you’re just like “Of the WHOLE YEAR?!?!”  I mean it’s just like.. Amazing.  I’m so thankful.  I get so excited about stuff like that and it’s continued to stay exciting – all of this – and ya know, putting out this new fragrance, this is a new thing.  This tour has been a new thing, just in the fact that we’ve been playing stadiums.  Everything feels new all the time even though it’s been happening since I was 14.

Host: And so let’s talk about this new fragrance, that I am wearing, Wonderstruck.  I love that it’s a lyric from one of your songs, “I’m blushing all the way home.”  Tell me how this all came about.

TS: Exactly!! Umm.. It’s a line from my song, “Enchanted,” and the line says “I’m wonderstruck, blushing all the way home.”  And, I’ve always loved that line and that phrase, wonderstruck.  You don’t hear it very often.  And so I just felt like if I ever get the chance to make a fragrance, which I dreamed about doing since I was about 14 years old.  Umm.. ya know, ever since I wrote that song, I thought “that would be the title.”  And I’d wanna create a fragrance that smelled the way that word feels.

Host:  And a lot of little girls are going to be buying it.  And we have the bottle that… It has little hidden… Could you tell me about the little hidden messages?  The hidden messages?  Like the little trinkets that are on it from your travels and that and the bottle?

TS:  Yeah!  We spent about a year creating this fragrance, so that entailed creating the actual fragrance, itself, but also I took the designers through my apartment and showed them all the different things that I’ve collected – antiques from all over the world – and some of the things were like – I have a lot of birdcages hanging in my house, and I have a lot of like, star lanterns and so that was where we got some of the ideas, to put the charms around the side of the bottle.

Host: And I found the hidden 13!!  Your favorite number!! You are about those hidden messages.  You take this very seriously, knowing that young people, especially young girls look up to you, don’t you?

TS:  It’s sort of a serious thing.  I mean, it’s been so much fun to have this relationship with my fans where they get me, they understand me, and I feel it works the other way around too.  And so, you have to respect that bond.  There’s a trust there.  And it’s been so fun the way they made my life beautiful, and I’m constantly trying to think of ways to pay them back and thank them.

Host: Well they have been flooding our Web site with questions, and I wanna get one good question, and this is from, Sarah in New Jersey: “You always have song quotes going down your arm for every show.  How do you choose them?”

TS: I choose them just based on how I’m feeling that day.  It’s sort of a mood ring.  It’s random.  It’s always other artists.  Always other artists lyrics.  But it’s like if I think a line’s clever, or a line kind of applies to how I’m feeling that day, it can be anything like that.  But, it’s always something that for some reason applies to me that day.

Host:  Then how do you still find the time to write as much as you do?   You’re so busy.  You’re on the road with your second world tour.  I know it’s very important to you.

TS:  I’m up late a lot.  I usually write between 2 and 3 in the morning.  It’s usually been like, I’ll try to go to sleep, then I’ll wake up with this idea, then I’ll go to the piano and just write until 4 or 5 in the morning.  But.. I’ve been writing more than ever before lately.  It’s crazy.  I think it’s just kind of my way of figuring things out.  And understanding life and love and feelings and the whole thing, ya know?

Host:  Well thanks for always letting us in.  And thanks for coming out here.  Most people wouldn’t have come out with this kind of weather, but I know your fans are important to you.

TS:  It’s just sprinkling.  It’s not a downpour. (Chuckles)

Host: Well, congratulations on everything and I know Wonderstruck.. Well, let’s just say we all have it on, and it’s gonna be a big hit as everything else.

TS:  Thank you SO much.

Host: Next time we’re gonna have you sing.  Next time you’re here.

TS: Awesome!

Host: We’d love to have you back!

TS: Absolutely! I love you guys! Thank you.

Host:  Alright.  Thank you again!