“Beauty is sincerity. There are so many ways, different ways someone can be beautiful.”

“I’ve never felt like there’s just one way to be beautiful.”

“Never compare yourself to the beautiful girls. There’s always someone gorgeous who will make you feel like you’re not.”

“Unique and different is the new generation of beautiful. You don’t have to be like everyone else.”

“Anything you put your mind to and add your imagination into, can make your life a lot better and a lot more fun.”

“Happiness and confidence are the prettiest things you can wear.”

“I’m beginning to think that you don’t find happiness from living your life looking ahead or back… that you find it when you look around.”

“In life and love, you learn that there comes a time to let go and move on.”

“In life, you learn lessons. And sometimes you learn them the hard way. Sometimes you learn them too late.”

“In real life, saying the right thing at the right moment is beyond crucial. Most of us fear reaching the end of our lives and looking back, regretting moments we didn’t speak up. When we didn’t say “I love you.” When we should’ve said “I’m sorry”. When we didn’t stand up for ourselves or someone who needed help.”

“Just because something is over doesn’t mean it wasn’t incredibly beautiful. Because another lesson I’ve learned is not all stories have a happy ending and you have to learn to deal with that.”

“Life is a ruthless game unless you play it good and play it right.”

“Life is like walking you take one step at a time.”

“Life isn’t how to survive the storm, it’s about how to dance in the rain.”

“The trials and tribulations in your life make you stronger.”

“The world doesn’t owe you anything. You have to work for everything you get and you have to appreciate every bit of success the world gives you.”

“We don’t need to share the same opinions as others, but we need to be respectful.”

“You have people come into your life shockingly and surprisingly. You have losses that you never thought you’d experience. You have rejection and you have to learn  how to deal with that and how to get up the next day and go on with it.” 

“But no matter what love throws at you, you have to believe in it. You have to believe in love stories and prince charmings and happily ever after. That's why I write these songs. Because I think love is FEARLESS.” 

“I don’t think there’s such a thing as falling in love too easily or falling too fast. Or loving someone too soon or trusting someone too soon...I’ve never treated two relationships the same. Some people move you and some people don’t.”

“It’s the most maddening, beautiful, magical, horrible, painful, wonderful joyous thing in the world, love.”

“I think the perfection of love is when it’s not perfect.”

“I write a lot of songs about love and I think that’s because to me love seems like this huge complicated thing. But it seems like every once in a while, two people get it figured out, two people get it right. And so I think the rest of us, we walk about daydreaming about what might be like. To find that one great love, where all of a sudden everything that seemed to be so complicated, became simple.”

“Love always ends differently and it always begins differently.”

“Love is fascinating. Wishing for it, pinning for it and the anger that comes when you lose it. I used to think that I could figure out some pattern to love, but there is no pattern. Absolutely nothing is predictable in love.”

“Love is unpredictable and it’s frustrating and it’s tragic and it’s beautiful.”

“Love will find you when you least expect it.”

“My favorite thing in life is writing about life, specifically the parts of life concerning love. Because as far as I’m concerned, love is absolutely everything.”

 “Real love still happens sometimes. It's not just something we make up when you're nine. I have to believe that. You do too.” 

“The way I look at love is you have to follow it, and fall hard, if you fall hard. You have to forget what everyone else thinks. It has to be an us-against-the- world mentality. You have to make it work by prioritizing, and by falling in love really fast, without thinking too hard. If I think too hard about a relationship I’ll talk myself out of it. I have rules for a lot of areas in my life. Love is not going to be one of them.”

“There is a general rule that I always go by, and it’s that fall for who you fall for. Whatever small issue you get hung up on, whether it’s because they’re shorter than you, younger than you or they live far away- if you really are crazy about someone, none of that matters.”

 “To truly love is to have the courage to walk away and let the other person who wishes to be free go no matter how much it hurts.” 

“At some point you have to forget about grudges because they only hurt.” 

“Be that strong girl that everyone knew would make it through the worst, be that fearless girl, the one who would dare to do anything, be that independent girl who didn’t need a man; be that girl who never backed down.” 

“Be yourself, chase your dreams, and just never say never. That’s the best advice I could ever give to someone.”

“Being fearless isn’t being 100% not fearful, it’s being terrified but you jump anyway.”

“Don’t ever regret being honest. Period.”

“Fearless is getting back up and fighting for what you want over and over again…even though every time you’ve tried before you’ve lost.”

“For everything I do, I think about a 6-year-old and her mom that I saw at my concert last night. I think about what those two individuals would think if I were at a club last night. I never want to be arrested, and I never want to be arrested, and I never want to get a DUI those are my moral values.”

“Giving up doesn’t always mean you are weak, sometimes you’re just strong enough to let go.”

“If somebody hurts you, it’s okay to cry a river but remember to build a bridge and get over it.”

“If you’re lucky enough to be different, never change.

“If you’re lucky enough to find something that you love, and you have a shot at it, don’t stop, don’t put it down.”

“I believe when it comes to love, there’s something intangible about who we are attracted to.”

“I’ve questioned everything about myself, every step of the way. You have to have the same amount of fear and self-doubt as you do hope and blind optimism.”

“I wish all teenagers can filter through songs instead of turning to drugs and alcohol.”

“Just be yourself, there is no one better.”

“Keeping your emotions all locked up is something that’s unfair to you. When you clearly know how you feel, you should say it.”

“Live your life like you're 80 looking back on your teenager years. You know if your dad calls you at eight in the morning and asks if you want to go out for breakfast. As a teenager you're like no, I want to sleep. But as an eighty year old looking back you have that breakfast with your dad. It just little things like that, that helped me when I was a teenager in terms of making choices you won't regret.” 

“Never believe anyone who says you don’t deserve what you want.”

“No matter what happens in life, be good to people. Being good to people is a wonderful legacy to leave behind.”

“There are two ways you can go with pain: You can let it destroy you or you can use it as fuel to drive you.”

“What I’ve learned is not to change who you are, because eventually you’re going to run out of new things to become.””

“To me, Fearless is not the absence of fear. It’s not being completely unafraid. To me, Fearless is having fears. Fearless is having doubts. Lots of them. To me, Fearless is living in spite of those things that scare you to death.”

“Words can break someone into a million pieces, but they can also put them back together. I hope you use yours for good, because the only words you’ll regret more than the ones left unsaid are the ones you use to intentionally hurt someone.”

“You can’t have a better tomorrow if you keep thinking about yesterday.”

“You have to be happy with who you are and the choices you make. If you don’t like yourself, you’ll never be truly happy.”

“You have to stop looking in the mirror and realize that you’re living for yourself, not others.”

“You only get many firsts, each one is a blessing.”

“People haven’t always been there for me but music has.”

“People like music when they’re in love, but they don’t need it as much. You need music when you’re missing someone or you’re pinning for someone or you’re forgetting someone or you’re trying to process what just happened.”

“For me, Genres are a way of categorizing music. But it doesn’t‎’t have to define you. It doesn’t have to limit you.”

“I feel in my music I can be a rebel. I can say things I wouldn’t say in real life.”

“I’ve always felt music is the only way to give instantaneous moment the feel of slow motion. To romanticize it and glorify it and give it a soundtrack and a rhythm.”

“Music is my shining light, my favorite thing in the world. To get me to stop doing it for one second would be difficult!”

“My definition of country music is really simple. It’s when someone sings about their life and what they know, from an authentic place.”

“Nobody in country music “made it” the same way. It’s all different. There’s no blueprint for success, and sometimes you just have to work at it.”

“If you’re horrible to me, I’m going to write a song about it and you won’t like it. That’s how I operate.”

“I have no idea what I’m doing when it comes to love. No one does! There’s no pattern to it, except that it happens to all of us, of course. I can’t plan for it; I can’t predict how it will end up.”

“I love all the girls who have my song on their myspaces. I love the people who come to my shows and put the pictures on here. I love the people at those shows who sing along with me. I love reading your stories in emails, some so touching they've given me chills. I love every single person who has wanted my autograph, because for the life of me I never really thought it would mean something to someone for me to write my name down. I love the little girls who stand in line with their mothers like I used to do. That was me. I love the couple who danced to my song at their wedding. Every comment, letter, and message. I love people who listen to the radio. I love every single person who is reading this, because you've let me into your life.” “I love you all so much, I just wanted you to know.” 

“I’d rather be at home and eat ice cream than go out and get wasted.”

“I’m not complicated. My complications come out in my songs. All you need to do to be my friend is like me.”

“I still love sparkles and grocery shopping and really old cats that are only nice to you half the time. I still love writing in my journal and wearing dresses all the time and staring at chandeliers.”

“I’m always going to be a hopeless romantic. Always.”

“I’m intimidated by the fear of being average.”

“I’ve always been a hugger. If we all hugged more, the world would be a better place.”

“I’ve found growing up can mean a lot of things. For me, it doesn’t mean I should become somebody completely new and stop loving the things I used to love. It means I’ve added more things on my list.”

“I’ve never been shy or secretive with the fact that if you walk into my life, you may be walking onto a record.”

“I want a guy who takes charge, but lets me have my say once in a while.”

“I want to be an over-achiever, and I want to be known for the good things in life.”

“I would love to continue in music, with writing… but I am not the kind of person who will hang around if I start to become irrelevant. If that happens, I will bow down gracefully, raise my kids, and have a garden. And I am going to let my hair go gray when I am older.  I don’t need to be blonde when I’m 60!”

“I’ve wanted one thing for me whole life and I’m not going to be that girl who wants one thing her whole life then gets it and complains.”

“I never want to change so much that people can’t recognize me.”

“I suffer from girlnextdooritis where a guy is friends with you and that’s it.”

“I write songs to help me understand life a little more. I write songs to get past things that cause me pain. And I write songs because sometimes life makes more sense to me when it’s being sung in a chorus. And when I can write in a verse.”

“So to you, or anyone else who has spent four minutes on me in some way-- listening to just one song, or watching one of my videos….Thank you. I love you like I love sparkles and having the last word. And that's real love.” 

“As I grow up, the lessons I learn in love and relationships and how we treat each other are hopefully maturing-maturing.”

“A good relationship is all about balance and chemistry.”

“In a relationship each person should support each other. They should lift each other up.”

“You need to be happy with yourself or you’ll never be able to be happy in a relationship.”