Melissa Block: I enlisted some expert outside counsel for this interview: my 12-year-old daughter. And I want to start with a question from her. "In your hit song 'Shake It Off,' why'd you address the song to your haters and not your motivators?"

Taylor Swift: That's amazing. With the song 'Shake It Off,' I really wanted to kind of take back the narrative, and have more of a sense of humor about people who kind of get under my skin — and not let them get under my skin. There's a song that I wrote a couple years ago called "Mean," where I addressed the same issue but I addressed it very differently. I said, "Why you gotta be so mean?" from kind of a victimized perspective, which is how we all approach bullying or gossip when it happens to us for the first time. But in the last few years I've gotten better at just kind of laughing off things that absolutely have no bearing on my real life. I think it's important to be self-aware about what people are saying about you, but even more so, be very aware of who you actually are, and to have that be the main priority.

Here's a related question about the same song, from a 7th grader. She's thinking about the lyrics, and she says, "That sounds a lot like middle school. Do you have anything that you can tell a middle school girl to help 'shake it off'"?

She's exactly right. When I was in middle school, I had this fantasy — and I really thought this was how life worked — that when we were in school, we had to deal with bullying and kids picking on you for no reason, or making you feel like somehow don't deserve what you want, or you're not what you should be. And I thought that when you grow up and you're not in school anymore, when you're out there in the world with adults, that it's not like that anymore, that people don't attack each other for no reason or try to tear each other down. And I realized when I grew up that it's the same. It's the same dynamics, except we're not walking from classroom to classroom.

It's just interesting how you have to learn how to deal with this at one point or another in your life because people don't necessarily ever grow out of those impulses to pick on each other. Some of us do; some of us realize that's something you do when you're insecure, you try to lash out at someone else. But a lot of people will always do that to other people. So I guess what I try to encourage girls who are in middle school to do is to figure out a way to distract yourself from that negativity. Figure out what kind of art you love to create, or your favorite hobby. Something to throw all of your energy into. And realize that you're gonna have to learn how to cope with this at some point — because it's never going to end, necessarily.


There's definitely a different sound on this new album. You've left country completely behind; this is a really highly produced electronic pop album. But you also say to your fans in the liner notes that "this is a different story line than I've ever told you before." I'm not sure I'm hearing that — so what do you think is new about the storyline in these songs?

In the past, I've written mostly about heartbreak or pain that was caused by someone else and felt by me. On this album, I'm writing about more complex relationships, where the blame is kind of split 50-50. I'm writing about looking back on a relationship and feeling a sense of pride even though it didn't work out, reminiscing on something that ended but you still feel good about it, falling in love with a city, falling in love with a feeling rather than a person. And I think there's actually sort of a realism to my new approach to relationships, which is a little more fatalistic than anything I used to think about them. I used to think that, you know, you find "the one." And it's happily ever after, and it's never a struggle after that. You have a few experiences with love and relationships, and you learn that that's not the case at all. Lots of things are gray areas and complicated situations, and even if you find the right situation relationship-wise, it's always going to be a daily struggle to make it work. So those are different themes that I don't think people have really seen in my lyrics before.

Is the song "Wildest Dreams" maybe an example of that?

That's actually a really good example of the way I go into relationships now. If I meet someone who I feel I have a connection with, the first thought I have is: "When this ends, I hope it ends well. I hope you remember me well." Which is not anything close to the way I used to think about relationships. It's that realization that it's the anomaly if something works out; it's not a given.

Are there new musical influences here? Some music reviewers have been mentioning the influence of Lorde or Lana Del Rey or maybe Robyn in some of your songs. What do you hear?

I hear Peter Gabriel and I hear Annie Lennox. Those were the two artists that I was listening to a lot when I was making this record. What Annie does is so interesting to me, and it's not something you could ever try to duplicate. But the way she conveys a thought, there's something really intense about it. And I think that's something I'll always aspire to.

And what about Peter Gabriel?

With Peter, that's an artist who has such incredible taste and such an incredible finger on the pulse of what would excite people, musically. What he was doing in the '80s was so ahead of its time, because he was playing with a lot of synth-pop sounds, but kind of creating sort of an atmosphere behind what he was singing, rather than a produced track. It was just kind of astonishing how he was able to do that. And then you see him in his later work, when he did that album full of modern-day covers. I mean, I just think that he's remarkable at giving people what they want, but they didn't think they wanted.

I want to ask you about the song "Out Of The Woods." There's this intriguing lyric in there about somebody "hitting the brakes too soon, 20 stitches in a hospital room." What's that about?


That line is in there because it's not only the actual, literal narration of what happened in a particular relationship I was in, it's also a metaphor. "Hit the brakes too soon could mean the literal sense of, we got in an accident and we had to deal with the aftermath. But also, the relationship ended sooner than it should've because there was a lot of fear involved. And that song touches on a huge sense of anxiety that was, kind of, coursing through that particular relationship, because we really felt the heat of every single person in the media thinking they could draw up the narrative of what we were going through and debate and speculate. I don't think it's ever going to be easy for me to find love and block out all those screaming voices.

Not to ignore the broader metaphor here, but I am curious about the actual event. What happened?

I'll bet you are. That's kind of between us, between the two people who it happened to. I think I put it in the song knowing it was an evocative lyric. And it was almost like this very strange, subtle clue to the media that they don't know everything that happened in that relationship, and they don't know everything that happens in my life, and I can have something really major and traumatic happen to me and they don't know about it.

How rare are those moments? When you feel like you can do something on your own that nobody will know about if you don't want them to.

It's strange because my life now is really abnormal. I get used to the fact that when I go out, there's gonna be a line of people wanting pictures on their phone, and there's gonna be crowds everywhere, even if there weren't crowds when I walked into a store. I realize the only privacy I'm really entitled to is when I'm in my own apartment or my own home, 'cause everything else is kind of — I'm looked at as sort of public property. And there's nothing I can do about that perception except control my mental perspective on it, which is, I need to treat people well. I need to be grateful. I need to take pictures with people when they ask for one. So if I'm not in the mood to do that, I don't leave my house.

You also do, in a certain way, make yourself pretty accessible through social media, right? You've been posting Polaroids of your fans holding your new album on your Twitter feed. And you chose fans to invite over to your various homes to have listening parties for the new album — made them cookies, I think? You do have this funny dynamic of bringing people in a very managed way, in a very calculated way, and then having to figure out where the boundary is.

Well, yeah. I like for them to be in situations where they feel they can be themselves. Places they can't be themselves are when they're being pushed up against a barricade and there are thousands of them outside of a talk show, and they're trying to get a picture but they're screaming and everybody's freaking out. They can't necessarily be themselves when they're in these chaotic situations where fans usually find themselves.

I've been on the internet for hours every single night figuring out what these people want from me.
I did this thing called the 1989 Secret Sessions a few months ago, way before the album came out. I had spent months picking fans on Instagram, Tumblr, Twitter — people who had been so supportive and had tried and tried to meet me, had been to five shows or however many events but had never met me before. And so I picked these people. And in every single one of my houses in the U.S. and my hotel room in London, I would invite 89 people over to my living room, play them the entire album, tell them the stories behind it. And I'd say, you know, you can share your experience, but please keep the secrets about this album a secret. Let's not talk about lyrics before the album comes out. Let's not talk about song titles. And if you see anybody leaking music, please let us know.

We spent four hours together each night, taking Polaroids and having a great time and giving them a chance to tell me their stories that they wanted to tell in their own time. Not being rushed. Not having to feel panic. And then they went back out into the world, and they kept those promises. They didn't talk about lyrics. They didn't spoil the secret for other fans. Two days before the album came out, it leaked online, and it was the first time I've ever had an album leak without it trending on Twitter — because my fans protected it. Anytime they'd see an illegal post of it, they'd comment, "Why are you doing this? Why don't you respect the value of art? Don't do this. We don't believe in this. This is illegal. This isn't fair. This isn't right." And it was wild seeing that happen.

What do you think other artists could take from that? You are having huge success with this album at a time when a lot of artists can't sell albums to the same extent as they used to.

Well I truly believe in the album. From the start of making one to the time it's finished, I focus on there being a visual theme and emotional DNA to it — including the physical package. I mean there has to be an incentive to go to a store, buy a CD. What people who are forecasting the downfall of the music industry don't think about is that there is a still a huge percentage of the country who drive their kids to school every day and play a CD and listen to it with their kids – there's a CD in the CD player in their car. So I understand that the industry's changing and a lot of people are streaming. However, there are a lot of people who aren't, which is what this release reflects. And so, in the physical CD, we've done an exclusive at Target that has three extra songs. It has three songwriting voice memos from my cell phone that were, you know, the initial rough rough ideas that I had; we put those on the album so people can have insight into the songwriting process. I have five sets of 13 Polaroids from the album photo shoot that are in an envelope in the CD, and depending on what album they get, they'll get a different set of polaroids with lyrics written on the bottom of them. So it's very much an experience that's different than downloading the music itself. It's almost like this kind of collector's edition, the physical copy.

I can imagine other singers listening to this saying, "You know, that's great for Taylor Swift. She has the resources to do all that. It's great marketing, but it's not art — and the rest of us are on a different playing field. We just can't compete with that."

I think that the way that the music industry is changing so quickly, we can learn something from every big release, anything that connects with people. At the end of the day, this is a case by case scenario. If some other artist tries to has the same exact marketing campaign, tries to do secret living room sessions, that's great — if it makes a connection with their fans. If it doesn't make a connection with their fans, then it's not gonna work for them. And I think that what we need to start doing is catering our release plans to our own career, to our own fans, and really get in tune with them. I've been on the internet for hours every single night figuring out what these people want from me. And when it came time to put out an album, I knew exactly what to do.

Let's think back to when your first album came out, when you were 16. You'd moved to Nashville with your parents to try to make this dream of yours come true. You were writing really personal songs about young love and your broken heart. Can you go back to those songs now? I mean, is there any way you can tap into that 16-year-old girl — or even younger, when you wrote them?

I wrote my first album when I was 14 and 15, so now we're going on 10 years of making albums right now. The formula has never changed, in that I try to make an album that best represents the last two years of my life. People have essentially gotten to read my diary for the last 10 years. I still write personal songs, and sometimes people like to put a very irritating, negative, spin on that — as if I'm oversharing, as if it's too much information — when this has been the way I've lived my life and run my career the entire time. So I do think it's really important that I continue to give people an insight into what my life is actually like, even though it comes at a higher cost now.

If you were to go back and perform one of your earliest songs, a song like "Tim McGraw," say, from your first album, could you connect? Could you go back to the girl who wrote that song as a young teenager?

Yes and no. When I do a live show, there are certain songs fans really want to hear, and I'm gonna always play those songs. There's a song called "Love Story" that I wrote when I was 17. I'm going to be playing that as long as I'm playing concerts. And I can go back and I can connect to that song — because of the stories I've heard from fans saying, "We walked down the aisle to that song," or how special I feel it was when that was our first No. 1 worldwide hit. But "Tim McGraw," that song I don't really connect to as much. I connect to it in the form of nostalgia, but that was a song about a first love. I'm in a very different place in my life right now, and I think you can only hope to grow so much, emotionally, that you can't necessarily connect to wide-eyed 15-year-old ideas of love anymore.

I've been thinking about that song — I was listening to it today — because it feels to me like "Wildest Dreams" is in many ways the 10-years-older version of "Tim McGraw," of telling somebody, "Look back and remember me this way." In that song it's a black dress and in the new song, I think it's a fancy dress.

Absolutely. I didn't think about that at all. The only difference is that "Tim McGraw," I wrote that song about a relationship that had already ended, hoping that he would remember me well. "Wildest Dreams" is about a relationship that is just beginning and already foreshadowing the ending of it.

Like I said, I am the mother of a 12-year-old girl, and she loves your music. Her friends love your music. You have a huge platform among a very vulnerable, impressionable set of the population. And I wonder if you think about turning your lens outward, turning it away from the diary page, and sending a broader message to girls who would be really receptive to hearing about big ideas and the big world that's outside.

Like what kind of messages?

Well, other characters. I don't mean to minimize the effect of a love song or a pop song. But do you ever think about writing about other experiences, things that might turn girls away from themselves in a different way?

We are dealing with a huge self-esteem crisis. These girls are able to scroll pictures of the highlight reels of other people's lives, and they're stuck with the behind-the-scenes of their own lives.
There's nothing that's gonna turn girls away from themselves at age 12. I think that it's really important that I speak about things in interviews that I'm passionate about. I have brought feminism up in every single interview I've done because I think it's important that a girl who's 12 years old understands what that means and knows what it is to label yourself a feminist, knows what it is to be a woman in today's society, in the workplace or in the media or perception. What you should accept from men, what you shouldn't, and how to form your own opinion on that. I think the best thing I can do for them is continue to write songs that do make them think about themselves and analyze how they feel about something and then simplify how they feel. Because, at that age — really at any age, but mostly that age — what can be so overwhelming is that you're feeling so many things at the same time that it's hard to actually understand what those emotions are, so it can turn to anxiety very quickly.

We are dealing with a huge self-esteem crisis. These girls are able to scroll pictures of the highlight reels of other people's lives, and they're stuck with the behind-the-scenes of their own lives. They wake up and they look at their reflection in the mirror, and they compare it to some filtered, beautiful photo of some girl who's really popular and seems like she has it all together. This is not what you and I had to deal with when we were 12. It's so easy and readily available to compare yourself to others and to feel like you lose.

I'm 24. I still don't feel like it's a priority for me to be cool, edgy, or sexy. When girls feel like they don't fit into those three themes, which are so obnoxiously thrust upon them through the media, I think the best thing I can do for those girls is let them know that this is what my life looks like. I love my life. I've never ever felt edgy, cool, or sexy. Not one time. And that it's not important for them to be those things. It's important for them to be imaginative, intelligent, hardworking, strong, smart, quick-witted, charming. All these things that I think have gone to the bottom of the list of priorities. I think that there are bigger themes I can be explaining to them, and I think I'm trying as hard as I possibly can to do that.

I'm really surprised to hear you say that you never feel cool or edgy or sexy. I mean, you spend a lot of time on red carpets. You go to fashion shows. Those three words don't fit into your view of yourself?

Not at all. I mean, going back to your daughter's age, I think a lot of our self-esteem and self-image is frozen in those formative years. And that was not a time in my life where I felt accepted or invited or like I belonged. And so I've kind of come into my own in that I no longer prioritize feeling those things.

You mentioned earlier you try to talk about feminism. What does feminism mean to you?

I mean, by my basic definition, it means that you hope for equal rights and opportunities for men and women.

And how does that play out in the music world that you're a part of? I mean, do you feel like that's not an issue for you anymore?

It's an issue every day that I read a headline that says, "Careful, guys. She'll write a song about you." Meanwhile, I have best friends who are male musicians and songwriters, who write songs about their girlfriends and their ex-girlfriends, and that joke is never made about them. As women in public eye, our relationships are tallied up in ways that they aren't for men. And if men have a lot of relationships that are tallied up, it's thought of as mischievous, cheeky. "Oh he's just out again with another girl." It's somehow done with a wink and a smile and for us, and it's supposed to be shameful, if we've had a few relationships that haven't worked out. When I open up a magazine and it says, "Who's the hotter mama: J-Lo or Beyoncé ?" You don't see, "Who's the hotter dad: Matt Damon or Ben Affleck?" It just doesn't happen. And if we continue this perception that women should be compared to other women and there's a winner and a loser, we're doing ourselves a huge disservice as a society.

Taylor Swift, thanks so much for coming in to talk to us. I appreciate it.

Thank you; it's been good to talk to you, too. Tell your daughter hey for me.Kanye West: OK, dope. You still got the Nashville number?
Taylor Swift: I still have the nashville area code but i had to change it…
Kanye: For all my south side n****s that know me best, feel like me and Taylor might still have sex.
Taylor: I’m like this close to overexposure.
Kanye: Oh well this one is, uh — I think this is a really cool thing to have
Taylor: I know! I mean it’s like a compliment kind of.
Kanye: What I give a f–k about is just you as a person, and as a friend.
Taylor: That’s sweet.
Kanye: I want things that make you feel good. I don’t wanna do rap that makes people feel bad.
Taylor: Um, ya. I mean, go with whatever line you think is better. It’s obviously very tongue in cheek either way. And I really appreciate you telling me about it, that’s really nice!
Kanye: Yea. I just felt I had a responsibility to you as a friend. I mean, thanks for being so cool about it.
Taylor: Aw, thanks! Yeah I really appreciate it. Like, the heads up is so nice!
Taylor: …things without like even asking or seeing if I’d be OK with it. And I just really appreciate it. I never would’ve expect you to tell me about a line in your song.
Taylor: And then the flowers that you sent me, I Instagrammed a picture of them and it’s the most Instagram likes I’ve ever gotten. It was like 2.7…
Kanye: Relationships are more important than punchlines, you know.
Taylor: Yeah. I mean, I don’t think anybody would listen to that and be like, Oh, that’s a real diss. Like, she must be crying about…
Taylor: You gotta tell the story the way that it happened to you and the way you experienced it. Like you obviously didn’t know who I was before that.
Taylor: It doesn’t matter if I sold 7 million of that album before you did that, which is what happened. You didn’t know who I was before that.
Taylor: … that I can make these things happen and I have the ideas to do it and I create these things and concepts. And, like, I’m always gonna respect you.
Taylor: And I’m really glad you had the respect to call me that and tell me that as a friend, about the song. It’s just a really cool thing to do, and a really good show of friendship. So thank you.
Kanye: Thank you too.
Taylor: And you know, if people ask me about it, I think it would be great for me to be like, Look, he called me and told me about the line before it came out. Like, joke’s on you guys, we’re fine.
Taylor: You guys wanna call this a feud, you wanna call this throwing shade. But right after the song comes out I’m gonna be on a Grammy red carpet and they’re gonna ask me about it and I’m gonna be like, he called me.
Taylor: …awesome that you’re so outspoken and it’s gonna be like, Yea, she does, it made her famous! It’s more provocative to say, Might still have sex.
Taylor: …it’s not. It doesn’t matter to me. there’s not one that hurts my feelings and one that doesn’t.
Your album Fearless (IN STORES TODAY) consists of mostly songs about guys. Do you prefer writing love songs or break up songs? I really like to write songs about relationships. I like to write about boys and I love to write about every aspect of love. I think that it’s really fascinating to me how many angles there are to a breakup. There are so many different things you can write about one breakup. So right now, that’s my favorite thing to write about. But also when you’re falling in love with someone, when you’ve just gone on the best date ever and you write a song about it. I think capturing that moment in time is really important and really fun. I am just fascinated by the whole relationship thing and that’s my favorite thing to write songs about.


Taylor Swift Talks To Just Jared

JJ: You update your Myspace blog from time to time, so you must check out other blogs. Which ones do you read regularly?

TS: I read blogs a lot actually. And I love JustJared because you’re really really nice and you’re really positive and I really appreciate that. And usually the people that comment, the people that read your blog are all really cool too. That’s been fun. I read Perez and OceanUp. I don’t know. My dad gets Google Alerts on me and he’ll send me those every once in a while, so it’s just random stuff. I really do appreciate the fact that you’ve been so supportive and so nice to me so thank you.

JJ: When you went on tour with Brad Paisley there were a lot of pranks played. Which one was your favorite?

TS: Going out on the Brad Paisley Tour, that was a notorious tour for pranking. Before I went out on tour, I knew that he pranked a lot of his opening acts a lot towards the end of the tour. I was out on the road with Kellie Pickler and Brad and we became best friends, Kellie and I, and we decided that we were gonna start pranking him the first week. He had a brand new song out then called Ticks, so Kellie and I ordered these huge, gigantic, full body tick costumes and dressed up in them and ran out on stage during his performance of that song. And then we had the other opening act – Jack Ingram – come out dressed up like an insect killer guy with the mask and the spray gun and everything and he proceeded to come out on stage and spray us and kill us. It was great, it was really fun. We have it on video and that’s definitely my favorite moment of the tour.

JJ: You recently attended the Another Cinderella Story premiere starring Selena Gomez. You two seem like such good friends. Do you have a best friend in the business?

TS: I’d say Selena Gomez is definitely my best friend in the business. We talk all the time, almost everyday. She’s just such a cool person because she’s so real and a lot of times people get to a level where they’re famous and people know them, people recognize them and they become…less real and Selena’s so cool because she’s got a great sense of humor, she’s a real person. It’s really awesome to have gotten to know her and have her in my life.

JJ: Do you play any other instruments besides the guitar?

TS: The instrument that I write on most of the time is a guitar. You know, I’ll be sitting in my room and I’ll get an idea for a song and I’ll just grab my guitar and start adlibbing. I think that when you write a song on piano it gives you a different feel. I’m not the best piano player but I do know chords and I do know how to play and how to write a song on piano. It’s really fun for me to get to switch that up every once in a while and there are a few songs on the new record that I wrote on piano.

JJ: What’s been the biggest splurge since you made it big?

TS: I think my biggest splurge so far has been my tour bus. If I’m spending money, it’s gonna be putting it back into my career. I don’t like to be extravagant any other place. My tour bus is really important because I live there. I’m there more than when I’m home. So, I put a fireplace on my tour bus and a flip-down treadmill and a really comfortable bed and it’s just…I feel like I’m home whenever I’m on my tour bus. I do not regret that splurge.

JJ: Besides work, what’s something you’d enjoy getting up early for?

TS: I’m really into breakfast now. I don’t know why. I was never really a breakfast person before but just recently I’ve come to realize that breakfast is awesome. So, I don’t know. A breakfast date or something. Or if Grey’s Anatomy was on at 6 a.m., I would get up everyday and watch it. Or every week.

JJ: What were the last three ring tones on your cell phone?

TS: The last three ring tones on my cell phone have been “It’s Over” by Jesse McCartney, “You’re So Vain” by Carly Simon and “Low” by Kelly Clarkson. That’s pretty depressing right?

JJ: Where is your high school diploma in your house?

TS: My high school diploma was mailed to me. I’m really excited because I didn’t test out or get my GED. I actually went through the whole process of home-schooling. It was pretty tough doing it on the road, but I made it a priority and got my diploma in the mail this summer. Very excited about it. I don’t know if we have it hung up yet because we haven’t really had much time to hang anything up. It’s weird, I walk into my room and it’s like a time wrap from when I was in eighth grade. I have no new pictures up. It’s like all of me in junior high, it’s pretty crazy. Hopefully we’ll get some time this winter to hang up some new pictures and my diploma and things like that.

JJ: Tell us three things people don’t know about you?

TS: I think three things people don’t know about me are that one – I have really bad eyesight. So I have these huge glasses that I wear that are the ugliest pair of glasses you’ll ever see in your life. But they were the ones in the glasses store that no one was going to buy. They were in the corner, they’re all dusty. I’m like, ‘no one is going to buy those, and they’re so ugly’. So I had to buy them. That’s one. Two is that if I don’t have coffee in the morning, I get a headache at night. Three is that I like to paint. Whenever I have downtime, whenever I’m home, I’ll turn off all the lights in my room and light candles and listen to music and paint. Usually I’ll send them to people – like to the radio programmers or things like that. But I like to paint.Host: I’m asking, Taylor, how she gets used to this.  Fans have been going CRAZY here in Time Square for this young woman, Taylor Swift.  They lined up all night just to catch a glimpse of her.  She’s been out signing autographs.  We’re going to talk to Taylor in just a moment, but first, a look at her career.

(Brief review of her career.  Discussed is each of her three albums, and introduction to her next endeavor; her first fragrance, Wonderstruck)

Host:  And in case you can’t tell, we are thrilled to have Taylor Swift back with us this morning.  You don’t even flinch anymore.  I’m like over here ‘cause of all the screaming and yelling and you’re just so accustomed..

Taylor Swift: It’s amazing! They’re so awesome! Um.. It’s been a really amazing tour, because every time we go on stage, it’s.. it’s that.  So it’s been amazing.

Host:  It really has been.  And I know, gosh, the 98 stops you’ve had already while you come up to Thanksgiving.  But first of all, let me say to you, you don’t remember, but we do, we remember talking to you for the first time.  You were 14 years old.  We went to Nashville.

TS: I remember that!!  That was like the biggest deal of my whole life then.

Host: Well we have a clip.  Let’s take a look.  Here’s Taylor.

(Shows clip from first interview in 2004)

Host:  Do you know what is so cool?  You were gonna play Bluebird café THAT night.

TS: That was the night I played the show at Bluebird Café that ended up getting me a record deal.  So it’s really crazy to have that on film.  Especially with you guys.  You’ve been so amazing to me since beyond… before day 1, so thank you.

Host: No.  It’s been easy to do.  And so you go from so excited to play Bluebird Café, which is a legendary place and a lot of stars, to Billboard.  Getting this honor from Billboard Magazine, the youngest to ever do that.  When you heard about that, what was your initial reaction?

TS:  When I heard about Billboard Woman of the Year, I was just… It was such an exciting, amazing honor.  It’s one of those jumping up and down moments, where you’re just like “Of the WHOLE YEAR?!?!”  I mean it’s just like.. Amazing.  I’m so thankful.  I get so excited about stuff like that and it’s continued to stay exciting – all of this – and ya know, putting out this new fragrance, this is a new thing.  This tour has been a new thing, just in the fact that we’ve been playing stadiums.  Everything feels new all the time even though it’s been happening since I was 14.

Host: And so let’s talk about this new fragrance, that I am wearing, Wonderstruck.  I love that it’s a lyric from one of your songs, “I’m blushing all the way home.”  Tell me how this all came about.

TS: Exactly!! Umm.. It’s a line from my song, “Enchanted,” and the line says “I’m wonderstruck, blushing all the way home.”  And, I’ve always loved that line and that phrase, wonderstruck.  You don’t hear it very often.  And so I just felt like if I ever get the chance to make a fragrance, which I dreamed about doing since I was about 14 years old.  Umm.. ya know, ever since I wrote that song, I thought “that would be the title.”  And I’d wanna create a fragrance that smelled the way that word feels.

Host:  And a lot of little girls are going to be buying it.  And we have the bottle that… It has little hidden… Could you tell me about the little hidden messages?  The hidden messages?  Like the little trinkets that are on it from your travels and that and the bottle?

TS:  Yeah!  We spent about a year creating this fragrance, so that entailed creating the actual fragrance, itself, but also I took the designers through my apartment and showed them all the different things that I’ve collected – antiques from all over the world – and some of the things were like – I have a lot of birdcages hanging in my house, and I have a lot of like, star lanterns and so that was where we got some of the ideas, to put the charms around the side of the bottle.

Host: And I found the hidden 13!!  Your favorite number!! You are about those hidden messages.  You take this very seriously, knowing that young people, especially young girls look up to you, don’t you?

TS:  It’s sort of a serious thing.  I mean, it’s been so much fun to have this relationship with my fans where they get me, they understand me, and I feel it works the other way around too.  And so, you have to respect that bond.  There’s a trust there.  And it’s been so fun the way they made my life beautiful, and I’m constantly trying to think of ways to pay them back and thank them.

Host: Well they have been flooding our Web site with questions, and I wanna get one good question, and this is from, Sarah in New Jersey: “You always have song quotes going down your arm for every show.  How do you choose them?”

TS: I choose them just based on how I’m feeling that day.  It’s sort of a mood ring.  It’s random.  It’s always other artists.  Always other artists lyrics.  But it’s like if I think a line’s clever, or a line kind of applies to how I’m feeling that day, it can be anything like that.  But, it’s always something that for some reason applies to me that day.

Host:  Then how do you still find the time to write as much as you do?   You’re so busy.  You’re on the road with your second world tour.  I know it’s very important to you.

TS:  I’m up late a lot.  I usually write between 2 and 3 in the morning.  It’s usually been like, I’ll try to go to sleep, then I’ll wake up with this idea, then I’ll go to the piano and just write until 4 or 5 in the morning.  But.. I’ve been writing more than ever before lately.  It’s crazy.  I think it’s just kind of my way of figuring things out.  And understanding life and love and feelings and the whole thing, ya know?

Host:  Well thanks for always letting us in.  And thanks for coming out here.  Most people wouldn’t have come out with this kind of weather, but I know your fans are important to you.

TS:  It’s just sprinkling.  It’s not a downpour. (Chuckles)

Host: Well, congratulations on everything and I know Wonderstruck.. Well, let’s just say we all have it on, and it’s gonna be a big hit as everything else.

TS:  Thank you SO much.

Host: Next time we’re gonna have you sing.  Next time you’re here.

TS: Awesome!

Host: We’d love to have you back!

TS: Absolutely! I love you guys! Thank you.

Host:  Alright.  Thank you again!GUY RAZ: You quote the poet Pablo Neruda right on the first page of the liner notes. The line is, "Love is so short, forgetting is so long." And it seems like that line sort of sets the theme for this record.

TAYLOR SWIFT: It really does. When I read that line, I absolutely connected to it. I felt like my favorite writers have almost musical hooks in their work, whether it's poetry or a hook at the end of a chapter that makes you want to read the next one. And I think that my favorite writers definitely have something musical about what they do, in saying something so relatable and universal and so simple.

Taylor Swift, Princess Of Punk?
THE RECORD
Taylor Swift, Princess Of Punk?
You write the vast majority of your songs, and a lot of your themes are about love or love lost and heartbreak. I sometimes wonder whether you date a lot of jerks.

[Laughs.] I've written all my songs on every single one of my records, and that's what's been fun about looking back. My first album is the diary of when I was 14, 15, 16. My second album, Fearless, was from 16 to 18, and so on, and so on. So you have my life being recorded in journal entries from these two-year periods of my life since I was 16. I like to write about love and love lost because I feel like there are so many different subcategories of emotions that you can possibly delve into. I've never missed two people the same way — it's always different for me. I've never fallen in love with someone and had the same exact kind of feeling come over me. So I think that there are all these different mixtures of emotions that go into individual feelings that you feel for individual people. And, yeah, most of the time it doesn't work out.

That's the thing with love: It's going to be wrong until it's right. So you experience these different shades of wrong, and you miss the good things about those people, and you regret not seeing the red flags for the bad things about those people, but it's all a learning process. And being 22, you're kind of in a crash course with love and life and lessons and learning the hard way, and thankfully, I've been able to write about those emotions as they've affected me.

Is there a line that you won't cross when it comes to writing about how you feel?

I don't think that I've ever experienced that line before.

So it's really you speaking in your lyrics?

Yeah. I've always written songs the same way. You learn different tricks — you learn craft, you learn structure, all that — as you go. Since I was 12, I would get an idea, and that idea is either a fragment of melody and lyric mixed in, [or] maybe it's a hook. Maybe it's the first line of a song. Maybe it's a background vocal part or something, but it's like the first piece of a puzzle. And my job in writing the song and completing it is filling in all the rest of the pieces and figuring out where they go. The reason why I keep doing it is because it's like a message in a bottle. You can put this message in a bottle, throw it out into the ocean, and maybe someday, the person that you wrote that song about is going to hear it and understand exactly how you felt. I think that's what keeps drawing me to songwriting: the spontaneity of how you can get an idea at 4 in the morning or while walking through the airport, and also the fact that it's conveying a message to someone that's more real than what you had the courage to say in person.


YouTube
In the liner notes, some of the letters in the lyrics are capitalized, and your fans know what that's about. These are clues for them to kind of piece things together. Do you see your lyrics as a way for you to directly communicate with your fans?

The first thing that I think about when I'm writing my lyrics is directly communicating with the person the song is about. I think what I've learned recently is that it's not ... heartbreak that inspires my songs. It's not love that inspires my songs. It's individual people that come into my life. I've had relationships with people that were really substantial and meant a lot to me, but I couldn't write a song about that person for some reason. Then again, you'll meet someone that comes into your life for two weeks and you write an entire record about them. When I first started writing songs, I was always scared that my songs were too personal — like, if I put someone's name in a song, people won't relate to it as much. But what I saw happening was, if I let my fans into my life and my feelings and what I'm going through — my vulnerabilities, my fears, my insecurities — it turns out they have all those things, too, and it kind of connects us.

A lot of people know you were a talented singer as a kid, but you actually experienced setbacks for many years before you made it, right?

I started out with community theater, like local theater. I loved being on stage. I loved telling a story through words and music. I actually ended up going to auditions in New York for Broadway stuff. I didn't make it there. What I ended up coming back to is, I always was just so obsessed with the storytelling in country music. Shania Twain, Faith Hill, The Dixie Chicks — I was so taken in by their songs. So I started singing their songs at karaoke contests and singing every single weekend at something, trying out singing the national anthem here or there. When I was 12, I started playing guitar and writing my own songs, and that's when it became something I could never stop thinking about. It went into overdrive. I was always singing at some coffeehouse or some singer-songwriter night or this festival or that festival. It just became everything to me when I was about 12, and that's when I started really pressuring my parents to move to Nashville.

What motivated you? Were you just convinced you were going to make it?

No, actually. I was never convinced I was going to make it. And I look back — my mom and I reminisce about this all the time because we had no idea what we were doing. My parents bought books on what the music industry was like. They had no idea what the music industry entailed and what was involved with it. [Something that was] said to me early on was, "Teenagers don't listen to country music. That's not the audience. The audience is a 35-year-old housewife. ... How are you going to relate to those women when you're 16 years old? You should come back when you're in your 20s." And I kept thinking, "But I love country music, and I'm a teenager! There have to be more kids out there like me."

How do you deal with setbacks now? A few years ago, you were criticized by a few critics for a performance at the Grammy Awards. Did that shake your confidence?

Absolutely. My confidence is easy to shake. I am very well aware of all of my flaws. I am aware of all the insecurities that I have. I have a lot of voices in my head constantly telling me I can't do it. I've dealt with that my whole life. And getting up there on stage thousands of times, you're going to have off nights. And when you have an off night in front of that many people, and it's pointed out in such a public way, yeah, that gets to you. I feel like, as a songwriter, I can't develop thick skin. I cannot put up protective walls, because it's my job to feel things.

The kind of magical way that criticism has helped me is that that's another thing that I put into my music. I ended up writing a song called "Mean" about that experience, and about this one particular guy who would not get off my case about it. To stand up at the Grammys two years later, to sing that song and get a standing ovation for it, and to win two Grammys for that particular song, I think was the most gratifying experience I've ever had in my life.



There's one song on the new album called "The Last Time," which you sing with Gary Lightbody of the band Snow Patrol, that's particularly heartbreaking. Where does that come from? You have this bright, upbeat personality and this charisma that's been written about so much, and yet there's a lot of pain in what you write about.

The idea was based on this experience I had with someone who was kind of this unreliable guy. You never know when he's going to leave, you never know when he's going to come back, but he always does come back. My visual for this song is, there's a guy on his knees sitting on the ground outside of a door. And on the other side of the door is his girlfriend, who he keeps on leaving — and he keeps coming back to her, but then he leaves again. He's saying, "This is the last time I'm going to do this to you." And she's saying, "This is the last time I'm asking you this: Don't do this again." And she's wondering whether to let him in, and he just wants her to give him another chance, but she doesn't know if he's going to break her heart again. It's a really fragile emotion you're dealing with when you want to love someone, but you don't know if it's smart to.

This is an election weekend, and I know that the day you turned 18, you registered to vote. You've also said that you want to wait to take public positions on issues; that you want to feel comfortable enough to defend them. Are you there yet?

No, I'm not. I think at 22, I'm still gathering information about who I am as a person. I look at a lot of people's interviews on their lives, [and] I talk to a lot of people who are older than me — I have a great respect for gray hair. A lot of people tell me that when they were 22, they thought they had it all figured out, but they didn't. Just when I start to think that I know how I feel about something, I learn something else that changes my mind. I just feel like I don't have enough wisdom about myself as a person yet to go out there and say to 20 million followers on Twitter, and these people on Facebook, and whoever else is reading whatever interview I do, "Vote for this person." I know who I'm going to vote for, but I don't think that it's important for me to say it, because it will influence people one way or another. And I just want to make sure that every public decision I make is an educated one.

For most people, the time to make mistakes is when you're 22. Do you feel like, because of your public persona, you can't?

I do think about it. There's not really one day that goes by that my life isn't documented somewhere. I live in a world where I know for a fact that my grandkids will get to Google what I wore today. It's a strange dilemma because it puts an amount of pressure on your every move that other 22-year-olds don't necessarily have to think about. In the grand scheme of things, I'm living a life. ... I know I'm going to make mistakes. I'm just going to try to handle those mistakes as a good person. The perception of you is going to change daily when you do what I do, but I just want to end up knowing in my heart that I did that right thing and tried my best, and if you mess up, hopefully it teaches you something.Radio.com: You’ve made clear that this is the Taylor Swift pop album. Did you know before you started that this was going to be a different kind of record for you, or did that emerge once you were working?

Taylor Swift: I had a few goals going into it. I wanted it to be a sonically cohesive album, and it ended up really being the first I’ve done since Fearless. I also wanted the songs to sound exactly how the emotions felt. I know that’s pretty vague, so I really didn’t know where it was going to go, but I knew that I wanted to work with the collaborators I had such crazy electricity with on Red, like Max Martin. I wanted to do some things that sounded nothing like what we had done before.

I like making records in a two-year process, because you generally throw out most of what you write the first year, because those are too similar to what you had done before. And then at some point after that, it becomes a sound, it gets dialed in. I realized that I was being inspired by these ‘80s synth-pop elements, so I came up with the title 1989 and clued in everyone that that’s what I was going for, and made sure I was working with a really close team that was up to that.

So how does that actually affect the songwriting? Did you have to use a different process, or get rid of things that felt like they were going a different direction?

You determine what the album is going to be, then you see which songs don’t fit the theme, the message, the emotional or song DNA of the album. Once you dial in what it’s really going to be, then you can start seriously exploring ideas, and only the ideas that are really on point stay on the album.

You recently made a strong statement supporting Emma Watson’s speech at the United Nations about gender equality, and you’ve spoken about how your friendship with Lena Dunham has altered your idea of feminism. Does your new attitude about these issues come through in the new songs?

I think there’s an emotional undercurrent that expresses how my life has changed priority-wise. There’s nothing overt, nothing that comes out and says “I only care about my girlfriends now, and I don’t need a man to make me happy.” It’s just the idea that right now I’m thrilled, excited, fascinated by things other than boys.


 

You started as a young artist with young fans. Do you feel like your audience is growing up as you grow up, or do you continue to direct your work to the same kind of young fan base?

The most interesting thing about meeting my fans now is that they say, “I’ve been listening to your music for eight years—I was in middle school and now I’m in college, and it’s like you’re my older sister and we’ve grown up together.” I’m not trying to be one of them if they’re fifteen, not trying to act like them or dress like them. I do feel more like a big sister, and they ask me for advice and I try to give it to them, whether that’s in an Instagram comment or in a song. The relationship has morphed, changed, and I think as long as I keep telling them an honest narrative of my life, they’ll keep subscribing.

How did the “Secret Sessions” playback events come about, and what are you learning as you watch your fans first listen to the album?

These playbacks have been the most exciting, fun thing I’ve done. It never occurred to me before to play an album for my fans before it came out. I just think my excitement level is so high this time. I wanted them to be in a comfortable, fun scenario, and to feel like they were special—because they are, everybody there is hand-picked. Whether they run a blog about me but never met me, or they came to nine shows and waited for me outside the stage door, I wanted to single those people out and get them together.

It’s been so much fun, so educational, to see which songs they’re obsessing over. I wasn’t expecting them to gravitate to the last track on the album, a song called “Clean” that I did with Imogen Heap, but so far, that one really seems to hit them the hardest. You see things come out of the woodwork like that and it’s a real surprise.

This week is Halloween. What should someone wear for the best Taylor Swift costume?

I guess either the shirt with the eagles that I’m wearing on the album cover, or else one of the looks from the “Shake It Off” video. That definitely gives you some options.Why did you leave Spotify? I'm in an office of people who are upset they can't stream your music.
Well, they can still listen to my music if they get it on iTunes. I'm always up for trying something. And I tried it and I didn't like the way it felt. I think there should be an inherent value placed on art. I didn't see that happening, perception-wise, when I put my music on Spotify. Everybody's complaining about how music sales are shrinking, but nobody's changing the way they're doing things. They keep running towards streaming, which is, for the most part, what has been shrinking the numbers of paid album sales.

Everything We Know About Lorde's Upcoming Album Release
With Beats Music and Rhapsody you have to pay for a premium package in order to access my albums. And that places a perception of value on what I've created. On Spotify, they don't have any settings, or any kind of qualifications for who gets what music. I think that people should feel that there is a value to what musicians have created, and that's that. I wrote about this in July, I wrote an op-ed piece in the Wall Street Journal. This shouldn't be news right now. It should have been news in July when I went out and stood up and said I'm against it. And so this is really kind of an old story.
What was the goal of your new album, 1989?
With 1989, I was really putting my neck on the line, because I was the one saying I need to change directions musically. And my label and management were the ones saying "Are you sure, are you positive? This is risky." And I was the one who had to come back every time and say, "No, this is what we're doing." When I put forth an album cover that didn't have half my face on it, and tried to convince my label that this was the best way to sell an album, you know, I got some kind of interesting side-glance looks. But I knew that this was the best cover to represent this record, because I wanted there to be an air of mystery. I didn't want people to know the emotional DNA of this album. I didn't want them to see a smiling picture on the cover and think this was a happy album, or see a sad-looking facial expression and think, oh, this is another breakup record. When I wanted to call the album 1989, people on the team questioned that. Every single element of this album has been called into question, and I've had to say "No, this is how we're doing it." And the fact that we came out and did the kind of numbers we did in the first week—you have no idea how relieved I was, because it was all on me if this didn't work. It was a little hard to sleep the night of the album release.
There's a song on my album called "All You Had to Do Was Stay." I was having this dream, that was actually one of those embarrassing dreams, where you're mortified in the dream, you're like humiliated. In the dream, my ex had come to the door to beg for me to talk to him or whatever, and I opened up the door and I went to go say, "Hi," or "What are you doing here?" or something—something normal—but all that came out was this high-pitched singing that said, "Stay!" It was almost operatic. So I wrote this song, and I used that sound in the song. Weird, right? I woke up from the dream, saying the weird part into my phone, figuring I had to include it in something because it was just too strange not to. In pop, it's fun to play around with little weird noises like that.
I am in love with catchy melodies and hooks that are stuck in your head for days, and ideally weeks, and even months. I really love it when I hear a song, and all of a sudden, my next two weeks are spent trying to figure out how to get that song out of my head. I think there's a way to artfully do it. I want people to have songs that I write stuck in their heads, but I don't want it to absolutely perturb them that they have the song stuck in their head. I'm talking about songs that sound like they were cooked up in a lab. Like, anything that makes you think there are eight songwriters on this.
A question about "Shake It Off," the lead single: I had never read someone saying you stay out too late.
Oh, that was just a good first line. Yeah.

What does writing a song do for you?
I see a lot of celebrities build up these emotional walls around themselves, where they let no one in, and that's what makes them feel very lonely at the top. I just keep writing songs. And I kind of stay open to feeling humiliated and rejected, because before being a quote-unquote celebrity, I'm a songwriter. Being a celebrity means you lock your doors and close your windows and don't let people in. Being a songwriter means you're very attuned to your own intuition and your own feelings even if they hurt.
So I approach it much more from a songwriter's perspective. But I do know how to pull myself out now, from that constant, never-ending, bottomless rabbithole of self-doubt and fear. I've been able to write songs and feel better. They clarify and simplify the emotions that you're feeling. Nothing you do is going to make the pain stop. It just helps to have it clarified and simplified.
Is there someone you look to as a model of where you’d like your career to go? Are there women you look up to?
We're taught to find examples for the way we want our lives to wind up. But I can't find anyone, really, who's had the same career trajectory as mine. So when I'm in an optimistic place I hope that my life won't match anyone else's life trajectory, either, going forward. I do have female role models in the sense of actresses like Mariska Hargitay. I think she has a beautiful life, and an incredible career, and I think she's built that for herself. She's one of the highest paid actresses—actors in general, women or men—on television, and she's been playing this very strong female character for, what, 15 years now, something like that. And Ina Garten, the Barefoot Contessa. I really love her business, and how she sticks to who she is, and how people relate to it. In other industries, I have female role models. I just struggle to find a woman in music who hasn't been completely picked apart by the media, or scrutinized and criticized for aging, or criticized for fighting aging—it just seems to be much more difficult to be a woman in music and to grow older. I just really hope that I will choose to do it as gracefully as possible.
Is it a struggle, being a role model for so many young women while trying to produce something artistically valid?
I don't find a struggle with that balance, being looked at as a role model, because I think it's a very obvious and natural thing for people to see you as, when you're a singer. I've always felt very comfortable with it, for some reason. That in particular hasn't been one of my struggles. I've struggled with a lot of things, but the idea that you're living your life and it's impacting other people, some of whom are very young, some of whom are in their most impressionable times and they're discovering the music that tells them how they are going to live their lives and how they should feel and how it's acceptable to feel, I think that that's kind of exciting.

Listen to Kanye West Romantic 17-Minute New Slow Jam
But it's the same thing as living your life based on what your grandkids will say one day. I'm sure there will be things that my grandkids make fun of me for no matter what, but I'd really rather it be, "Look how awkward your dancing was in the 'Shake It Off' video! You look so weird, Grandma!" rather than "Grandma, is that your nipple?" I don't make it as much about the millions of people who would be disappointed if I were to have some sort of meltdown or scandal or something that made everyone feel like my character wasn't what they thought it was. I think more about the people in my life that would disappoint: my mom, my dad, my kids, if I ever have them. And that way it's not as much pressure as thinking about the millions of little minds that you must be shaping. I'm trying to live my life with some sort of thoughtfulness put into my actions, but it's not because I feel like I'm the president of the International Babysitters Club.
Does it annoy you when people say you don't write your own songs, or that someone else is pulling the strings of your career?
I haven't heard any of the people I respect in the music industry or in journalism, saying that they think I don't write my own songs. I think, when I put out Speak Now, which was my third album, and I decided I was just going to write it entirely on my own, to me that was enough of a statement. I felt like I could move on from that. I felt like I had proved my point. That was when I felt free to collaborate with whoever I wanted, because if you actually listen to the music, you can tell that the lyrics are written by the same person. And it's not a ghostwriter. It's not some weird, you know—everyone's got those weird Shakespeare theories that someone else did all his stuff for him. Not to ever compare yourself to Shakespeare. But people need to poke holes in things because of their own stuff. It's not about me.
And we all know it's a feminist issue. My friend Ed [Sheeran], no one questions whether he writes everything. In the beginning, I liked to think that we were all on the same playing field. And then it became pretty obvious to me that when you have people sort of questioning the validity of a female songwriter, or making it seem like it's somehow unacceptable to write songs about your real emotions—that it somehow makes you irrational and overemotional—seeing that over the years changed my view. It's a little discouraging that females have to work so much harder to prove that they do their own things. I see Nicki Minaj and Iggy Azalea having to prove that they write their own raps or their own lyrics, and it makes me sad, because they shouldn't have to justify it.
As a female celebrity, having your body picked over, in a way that doesn't happen for male celebrities—how do you deal?
I refuse to buy into these comparisons, because you don't see it happening to men. All you seem to see is "Which New Mother Is Sexier?" "Who's the Hotter Mama?" "Who's Got The Better Booty?" If we continue to show young girls that they are being compared to other girls, we're doing ourselves a huge disservice as a society. I surround myself with smart, beautiful, passionate, driven, ambitious women. Other women who are killing it should motivate you, thrill you, challenge you and inspire you rather than threaten you and make you feel like you're immediately being compared to them. The only thing I compare myself to is me, two years ago, or me one year ago. How does 1989 measure up to Red, sales-wise? You just try to lead by example, and you hope, someday, that if we talk about feminism enough, maybe we'll start to actually see it make a difference in the way young girls perceive themselves and each other.
Does it annoy you to have photographers everywhere you go? Are you at risk of becoming a shut-in?
Yeah, every outing is documented. So any outing I've been on, you've seen photos of. Any other time, I'm at home. Or I have my friends over and we cook dinner and talk and sit on the roof and laugh about things and gossip and whatever.
It's honestly like, if I'm in the mood to be held accountable for every single article of clothing on my body, and whether it matches, and if it clashes, and if it's on trend, then I go out. But if I'm not interested in undergoing that kind of debate and conversation—regarding how I'm walking, whether I look tired, how my makeup is right, what's that mark on my knee, did you hurt yourself?—I just don't go out. I try to evaluate whether I'm in the right emotional space to deal with that, and if I'm not, then I just stay in. And I'm perfectly happy staying in.
What do you have planned for the tour?
I know that with the way the fans have latched onto this album, the setlist will be predominantly songs from 1989. You know, when I go back and play songs I know they want to hear, like "Love Story" or "Trouble," it'll be interesting to reimagine them so that the fans get a new experience that feels in keeping with 1989. But I'm so excited. I have so many things I've been dreaming up for this.

Jennifer Lopez Could Barely Contain Her Excitement for This Concert Proposal
If you look at the makeup of my previous music, as far as production elements go, there are a lot of live drums, acoustic guitars, electric guitars, and live bass. And if you look at the landscape of 1989, it's mostly synths and automated drums and these kind of big epic synth pad sounds, and key bass, and layered vocals. I have a very big band, there are, what, 14 of us, so what you're going to end up with is more of a live feel in that it's going to be filled in and more dramatic with more layers to it, but never to the point where it's going to feel noisy or overcrowded. The music on this tour is going to live a little bit in that world, and thank God, my fans really seem to like that world.
The challenge with a stadium show is making those people in the very top row feel like they got an intimate, personal experience. On the Red tour we achieved that sense of intimacy by having acoustic moments, and moments where I was telling stories about these songs. I don't like to scream at the audience, I like to talk to them.
I really like for there to be something theatrical about what we do on stage. When I was younger, I was just obsessed with Broadway shows. As much as I can show these audiences an element of that theatrical nature to a performance, I think that it allows them to escape from their lives a little bit more. So when you have a show like that it's very difficult to change up the setlist every night. I keep the setlist pretty much intact, but we have little variables—I usually do different acoustic songs every night. In the past, I have brought out dozens of guest artists not to perform my songs but to perform their songs and I'll take a verse. And those are the things that make me the happiest, because the reality of the situation is that most of the kids in the audience have YouTubed the entire concert before they got there. They know exactly what's going to happen next unless I call up another artist and have a secret rehearsal soundcheck and surprise the crowd with something they genuinely weren't expecting. I should be getting on that now, look into a booking agent for these things.
But it's worth it because I really want them to have that genuine moment of surprise. It's very rare in this day and age to surprise people, but I really like doing it.
Do you have a dream onstage guest?
I love Iggy Azalea, I love Haim. I'd say Vance Joy, but he's opening up the tour, so he'll be there anyway. The things that I try to really focus on when bringing out people as surprise guests is what do my fans really want to see, what would they lose their minds over? Not to show too many of my cards here—but I have probably 10 guests that I'm thinking about that would be amazing. But you know, these have to be artists that would get up there and play for the love of playing, because they're not paid for being there, and they usually have to switch up their schedules. The people who have done it in the past—it's been astonishing to me, because it's been Nicki Minaj, and Usher, and T.I., these huge artists who could be anywhere else. And you can tell who loves playing live if they're willing to come and play for free on one of my stadium shows.
Is there a singular moment from touring that sent your endorphin levels higher than they'd ever been before?
There are moments that happen live where you get to see humanity do what they're going to do, and you can't ever anticipate what they're going to do. I played a stadium right outside of Boston a couple years ago. It was outdoor, perfect, clear weather forecast. And in the middle of the show, a torrential downpour starts. In my head, the first thing I'm thinking is, Everyone's going to leave. We're seven songs into this show, and they're going to leave. I'm going to be playing to no one. And it's going to look just like my nightmares look. But instead of leaving, they just danced. They all danced in the rain together, and I still, years later, have people come up to me in public, at some restaurant or wherever they run into me, and they'll say, "I was at the show where it rained. I was at the Rain Show." And I know exactly what they're talking about, because we have these moments and these memories that bond us, like the time I looked out there and saw everyone dancing, when it was the complete opposite of what I thought they were going to do, and it's those moments of human interaction that happen on tour that you can't get just watching a song climb the charts, sitting in your house.
You recently moved to New York. Are you a Knicks fan now?
Yeah, totally.
You realize they're not very good.
I love them, though. Why does that matter? So you run into a bunch of different, interesting types of people at the Met Ball. I've gone the last four years. And the most normal people at that event, every single time, are Amar'e Stoudemire and his wife Alexis. I talk with them and hang with them every time I'm there. So I've always had this sort of love of the Knicks, just because Amar'e is so cool. And also I performed at the Knicks'—at Madison Square Garden's—Kids Talent Competition at halftime when I was 12 or 13. And ever since then I've had this kind of sparkly, magical opinion of Madison Square Garden and the Knicks, since they let me sing when I was a little kid.A LOT OF YOUR SONGS ARE ABOUT RELATIONSHIPS THAT DIDN'T WORK OUT. WHAT ADVICE WOULD YOU GIVE TO OTHER GIRLS WHO ARE GOING THROUGH HEARTBREAK?

Your feelings so are important to write down, to capture, and to remember because today you're heartbroken, but tomorrow you'll be in love again. And you'll appreciate it more when you can go back and read your journal and realize that the happiness you have is special because yesterday, you cried. I'm so lucky that I get to look at journals from when I was 13 and wanted [a singing career] so bad, but never thought that I would be able to have it, or to get to be on the cover of CosmoGirl.

SO YOU DIDN'T EXPECT SUCCESS?

No! The reason I was so driven was that I didn't expect that anything would just happen for me. But that doubt fueled me to work harder. My attitude was the opposite of people who are like, "It's gonna happen for me. It's gonna happen for me." My mantra was always, "It's not gonna happen for me. Go out and play that show or it won't happen." You know? I never expected anything to be given to me.

NOW THAT YOU'VE BECOME SO SUCCESSFUL, WHAT MAKES YOU HAPPY?

What makes me happy is just curling up in with my mom in her bed and watching a marathon of CSI and Grey's Anatomy episodes with pints of ice cream. It's amazing when we get to do that. I think that what people always want is what they don't have a lot of, and the thing that I haven't had a lot of lately is getting to curl up in bed and watch a marathon of my favorite shows!

YOU'VE TALKED ABOUT HOW ALL OF YOUR FRIENDS IN MIDDLE SCHOOL DESERTED YOU ONE DAY. HOW DID THAT AFFECT THE PERSON YOU ARE NOW?

I think the tiniest little thing can change the course of your day, which can change the course of your year, which can change who you are. I'm not quite sure how it affected me to lose all my friends and have to walk into school and go at it alone, but I can only hope that it made me a stronger person. And I got to write songs about it — my first songs were written because of trying to deal with that emotion. I will never be able to thank those people enough because it's like, you can't write a song if you're not feeling anything, and sometimes, even though you have to be feeling pain, it's worth it in the end. But it's so funny because even when I go back to high school now, when I go back to functions like a football game or a band concert or something like that, it doesn't matter how many people come up and ask me for my autograph, if I see like one of those popular people, I still feel like my hair is frizzy and people are looking at me.

YOU'RE KNOWN FOR BEING CAREER-FOCUSED AND NOT PARTYING. DO YOU CONSCIOUSLY TRY TO STAY AWAY FROM THAT SCENE?

No, I'm just being myself. I'm not a party girl at this point in my life. It's not a priority for me. I have to get up early and do interviews and I have to sing every night. I don't have any interest in going out to clubs right now. I love people, and I love socializing, I just don't have any interest in being drunk. I don't worry about [people who say I'm too much of a good girl] because the people who say that, it's like, wow, you are really trying to find something you don't like about me. And, honestly, if somebody wants to criticize me for not being a trainwreck, that's fine with me!Who better to get to the heart of the phenomenon that is Taylor Swift than one of her besties? For ELLE's June Women in Music Issue cover story, Tavi Gevinson sat down with Swift to talk about matters of the head, heart, and everything in between. Pick up the June issue on newsstands nationwide on May 19 to read the entire interview. Below, check out a sneak peek of their conversation.

Since the age of 14, I have littered—excuse me, adorned—the Internet with Taylor Swift analyses. I was first struck by how much more agency she had over her songwriting and public image than other popular artists tapping into my demo, and by how it felt to get permission from a girl wielding a guitar to shamelessly express one's emotions, despite how often doing so can get you called "crazy" (that sexist euphemism for "feminine"). With the release of her fourth album, Red, in 2012 and a handful of highly publicized romances, Taylor was criticized by the press and other entertainers for such sinful acts as dating people and writing songs about it, gaining a reputation as boy-crazy and love-ridden. But I'd always felt that the men in her songs were mere catalysts for her own self-discovery. Last October she released 1989, and if you use the Internet or ever leave the house, you're familiar with its ubiquity. But I would like to draw attention to the secret message spelled out in the liner notes of "Clean," the final track: "She lost him but she found herself and somehow that was everything."

Taylor's first four albums have been certified platinum a combined 21 times, but despite her unprecedented success in country music, 1989 is strictly pop. The same woman who once landed a nonsingle called "Forever and Always" on the Top 40 charts now declares, in "Wildest Dreams," "Nothing lasts forever." Yet her storytelling and the attention to detail that she honed in country are what make her pop songs peerless. She's 25 now, and with her newfound perspective on romance's expiration date, she's also gained appreciation for the joy of a fling's impermanence, recovering from heartbreak, and reinventing oneself. "Find out what you want/Be that girl for a month" refers to the preferences of a lover in "Blank Space" but could just as well apply to her own evolution. 1989 debuted at number one on the Billboard 200 charts and sold almost 1.3 million copies in the first week. It was the top-selling album of 2014 and outsold her previous two albums in the U.S. after just 19 weeks in release.

Taylor and I first met in 2012, but you can't go over to a friend's apartment to make chili and be like, "But first, real quick: Is it 'Starbucks lovers'?" However, in the name of journalism, I talked to Taylor the morning of this year's Grammys at her house in L.A. about all of the above.


MICHAEL THOMPSON
On getting over a guy:

Tavi Gevinson: I want to ask you about "Clean." The girl singing is so sensible, with none of the impulsiveness of "Blank Space" or "Style."

Taylor Swift: "Shake It Off" and "Clean" were the last two things we wrote for the record, so it shows you where I ended up mentally. "Clean" I wrote as I was walking out of Liberty in London. Someone I used to date—it hit me that I'd been in the same city as him for two weeks and I hadn't thought about it. When it did hit me, it was like, Oh, I hope he's doing well. And nothing else. And you know how it is when you're going through heartbreak. A heartbroken person is unlike any other person. Their time moves at a completely different pace than ours. It's this mental, physical, emotional ache and feeling so conflicted. Nothing distracts you from it. Then time passes, and the more you live your life and create new habits, you get used to not having a text message every morning saying, "Hello, beautiful. Good morning." You get used to not calling someone at night to tell them how your day was. You replace these old habits with new habits, like texting your friends in a group chat all day and planning fun dinner parties and going out on adventures with your girlfriends, and then all of a sudden one day you're in London and you realize you've been in the same place as your ex for two weeks and you're fine. And you hope he's fine. The first thought that came to my mind was, I'm finally clean. I'd been in this media hailstorm of people having a very misconstrued perception of who I was. There were really insensitive jokes being made at awards shows by hosts; there were snarky headlines in the press—"Taylor Goes Through a Breakup: Well, That Was Swift!"—focusing on all the wrong things.

On happily ever after and what Lena Dunham has taught her about love:

TG: Can you tell me more about how the way you go about songwriting has changed?

TS: I'd never been in a relationship when I wrote my first couple of albums, so these were all projections of what I thought they might be like. They were based on movies and books and songs and literature that tell us that a relationship is the most magical thing that can ever happen to you. And then once I fell in love, or thought I was in love, and then experienced disappointment or it just not working out a few times, I realized there's this idea of happily ever after which in real life doesn't happen. There's no riding off into the sunset, because the camera always keeps rolling in real life. It's magical if you ask anyone who has ever fallen in love—it's the greatest. Now I have more of a grasp on the fact that when you're in a state of infatuation and you think everything that person does is perfect, it then—if you're lucky—morphs into a real relationship when you see that that person is not in fact perfect, but you still want to see them every day.

TG: That's why I love that the height of your song "You Are in Love" is the lyric: "You're my best friend." That's the best.

TS: Yeah. I've never had that, so I wrote that song about things that Lena [Dunham] has told me about her and Jack [Antonoff]. That's just basically stuff she's told me. And I think that that kind of relationship—God, it sounds like it would just be so beautiful—would also be hard. It would also be mundane at times.

TG: …I think that when people who've had success from a young age go through a train-wreck cycle, it's usually because they're working on someone else's terms, so they feel the need to rebel. But when it's something you've built, you don't have that same kind of resentment or angstiness. But it's also difficult to keep those standards for yourself. Do you ever really worry that you're going to accidentally say something inflammatory?

TS: Not necessarily. As far as the need to rebel against the idea of you, or the image of you: Like, I feel no need to burn down the house I built by hand. I can make additions to it. I can redecorate. But I built this. And so I'm not going to sit there and say, "Oh, I wish I hadn't had corkscrew-curly hair and worn cowboy boots and sundresses to awards shows when I was 17; I wish I hadn't gone through that fairy-tale phase where I just wanted to wear princess dresses to awards shows every single time." Because I made those choices. I did that. It was part of me growing up. It wasn't some committee going, "You know what Taylor needs to be this year?" And so with 1989, I feel like we gave the entire metaphorical house I built a complete renovation and it made me love the house even more—but still keeping the foundation of what I've always been.