Red is such an interesting color to correlate with emotion, because it's on both ends of the spectrum. On one end you have happiness, falling in love, infatuation with someone, passion, all that. On the other end, you've got obsession, jealousy, danger, fear, anger and frustration. 
A lot of people ask me, 'How did you have the courage to walk up to record labels when you were 12 or 13 and jump right into the music industry?' It's because I knew I could never feel the kind of rejection that I felt in middle school. Because in the music industry, if they're gonna say no to you, at least they're gonna be polite about it. 
My definition of country music is really pretty simple. It's when someone sings about their life and what they know, from an authentic place. 
My definition of country music is really pretty simple. It's when someone sings about their life and what they know, from an authentic place. 
Relationships are like traffic lights. And I just have this theory that I can only exist in a relationship if it's a green light. 
I love the scents of winter! For me, it's all about the feeling you get when you smell pumpkin spice, cinnamon, nutmeg, gingerbread and spruce. 
I can't deal with someone wanting to take a relationship backward or needing space or cheating on you. 
Factoring in millions of people when I'm writing a song is not a good idea. I don't ever do it. 
Silence speaks so much louder than screaming tantrums. Never give anyone an excuse to say that you're crazy. 
You know, Katie Couric is one of my favorite people. 
I think the tiniest little thing can change the course of your day, which can change the course of your year, which can change who you are. 
We don't need to share the same opinions as others, but we need to be respectful. 
When you walk out onstage in front of 65,000 people, it can bring you to tears. 
One of my big fears is people saying my songs are all starting to sound the same. 
I wouldn't wear tiny amounts of clothing in my real life so I don't think it's necessary to wear that stuff in photo-shoots.
One of my big goals as a human being is to continue to write what's really happening to me, even if it's a tough pill to swallow for people around me... I do fear that if I ever were to have someone in my life who mattered, I would second-guess every one of my lyrics. 
My friends tease me about the fact that if someone seems bad or shady or like they have a secret, I find them incredibly interesting. 
I leave the genre labeling to other people. I really do. If I were to think too hard about it, that would stifle you creatively. If you think too hard about who other people want you to be as an artist, it stops you from being who you want to be as an artist. 
I have this really high priority on happiness and finding something to be happy about. 
I am alone a lot, which is good. I need that time to just be alone after a long day, just decompress. So, I go to either my house or the hotel, or my apartment, or whatever - wherever I am, I go home and I watch TV and I sit there, with my cat, and I just watch TV or go online, check my emails. 
Sitting on a bedroom floor crying is something that makes you feel really alone. If someone's singing about that feeling, you feel bonded to that person. That's the only way I can find an explanation for why 55,000 people would want to come see me sing. 
I know that a Christmas tree farm in Pennsylvania is about the most random place for a country singer to come from, but I had an awesome childhood. 
At some point, you grow out of being attracted to that flame that burns you over and over and over again. 
I don't know if I could do this with the same energy, and in the same way - all the costume changes and glitter and hair and makeup - all the time. When I'm in my 50s, I kind of think I'll want to be in a garden. 
I know that a Christmas tree farm in Pennsylvania is about the most random place for a country singer to come from, but I had an awesome childhood. 
I don't know how to have a normal relationship because I try to act normal and love from a normal place and live a normal life, but there is sort of an abnormal magnifying glass, like telescope lens, on everything that happens. 
I love the ending of a movie where two people end up together. Preferably if there's rain and an airport or running or a confession of love. 
When you are missing someone, time seems to move slower, and when I'm falling in love with someone, time seems to be moving faster. 
When you are missing someone, time seems to move slower, and when I'm falling in love with someone, time seems to be moving faster. 
I feel the emotion that life conjures up and the songs I write get me closer to my feelings and realising who I am. It's a natural process. 
I remember auditioning for record labels and having them tell me, 'Well, the country-radio demographic is the thirty-five-year-old female housewife. Give us a song that relates to the thirty-five-year-old female, and we'll talk.' 
I don't like it when people who are young act like they're 40. That's taking too much on. Putting up a shield and trying to act like you're so mature or whatever - I don't try to act mature. Some people might say I'm mature for my age, but it's not something I'm trying to do, you know? I'm just me. 
I think I first realized I wanted to be in country music and be an artist when I was 10. And I started dragging my parents to festivals, and fairs, and karaoke contests, and I did that for about a year before I came to Nashville for the first time. I was 11 and I had this demo CD of me singing Dixie Chicks and Leanne Rimes songs. 
I love making new friends and I respect people for a lot of different reasons. 
You have people come into your life shockingly and surprisingly. You have losses that you never thought you'd experience. You have rejection and you have learn how to deal with that and how to get up the next day and go on with it. 
I approach love differently now that I know it's hard for it to work out. 
If you cry over a guy, then your friends can't date him. It can't even be considered. 
I get really restless when I haven't worked for a day and a half. I have a recurring dream that people are lined up next to my bed, waiting for autographs and taking pictures of me! 
I haven't had that one great love, which is good. I don't want that to be in the past - I want it to be in the future. 
I would love to continue in music, with writing... but I am not the kind of person who will hang around if I start to become irrelevant. If that happens, I will bow down gracefully, raise my kids, and have a garden. And I am going to let my hair go gray when I am older. I don't need to be blonde when I'm 60! 
It feels kinda weird being back in a high school cause I haven't been in a high school for about a year. So um, it's kinda interesting coming back, and y'know seeing the lockers, with all the signs, the handmade signs, so being in high school again is a little bit strange but in a good way. 
When you're singing you can hear the echo of people in the audience singing every single word with you, and that was that big dream that I had for myself. It's happening. 
For everything I do, I think about a 6-year-old girl and her mom that I saw at my concert last night. I think about what those two individuals would think if I were at a club last night. I never want to be arrested, and I never want to get a DUI, those are my moral values. 
Fans are my favorite thing in the world. I've never been the type of artist who has that line drawn between their friends and their fans. The line's always been really blurred for me. I'll hang out with them after the show. I'll hang out with them before the show. If I see them in the mall, I'll stand there and talk to them for 10 minutes. 
As soon as I accomplish one goal, I replace it with another one. I try not to get too far ahead of myself. I just say to myself, 'All right, well, I'd like to headline a tour,' and then when I get there, we'll see what my next goal is. 
My mom and I have always been really close. She's always been the friend that was always there. There were times when, in middle school and junior high, I didn't have a lot of friends. But my mom was always my friend. Always.
I love it when people say things to me in public and want to meet me, because I want to meet them! Early on, my manager told me, 'If you want to sell 500,000 records, then go out there and meet 500,000 people.' 
For me, when I picture the person I want to end up with, I don't think about what their career is, or what they look like. I picture the feeling I get when I'm with them. 
When I was 8 years old, it mattered what my favorite singer said and wore and expressed opinions about. 
All of my favorite people - people I really trust - none of them were cool in their younger years. 
I get so excited when a song I wrote that's very personal to me goes No. 1 and I look down and see people singing the words back to me.
What makes me happy is just curling up in with my mom in her bed and watching a marathon of 'CSI' and 'Grey's Anatomy' episodes with pints of ice cream. 
When I'm getting to know someone, I look for someone who has passions that I respect, like his career. Someone who loves what he does is really attractive. 
I often get ideas for songs on the tour bus at odd times. Like at 6am when no one is around, I'd just write. 
I have this fear of falling in front of large groups of people. That's why I tend not to wear heels. 
When you hear people making hateful comments, stand up to them. Point out what a waste it is to hate, and you could open their eyes. 
“Your lucky enough to be different, never change” 


“The way you walk, way you talk, way you say my name; it's beautiful, wonderful, don't you ever change.” 


“The only one who's got enough of me to break my heart.” 

“I've apparently been the victim of growing up, which apparently happens to all of us at one point or another. It's been going on for quite some time now, without me knowing it. I've found that growing up can mean a lot of things. For me, it doesn't mean I should become somebody completely new and stop loving the things I used to love. It means I've just added more things to my list. Like for example, I'm still beyond obsessed with the winter season and I still start putting up strings of lights in September. I still love sparkles and grocery shopping and really old cats that are only nice to you half the time. I still love writing in my journal and wearing dresses all the time and staring at chandeliers. But some new things I've fallen in love with -- mismatched everything. Mismatched chairs, mismatched colors, mismatched personalities. I love spraying perfumes I used to wear when I was in high school. It brings me back to the days of trying to get a close parking spot at school, trying to get noticed by soccer players, and trying to figure out how to avoid doing or saying anything uncool, and wishing every minute of every day that one day maybe I'd get a chance to win a Grammy. Or something crazy and out of reach like that. ;) I love old buildings with the paint chipping off the walls and my dad's stories about college. I love the freedom of living alone, but I also love things that make me feel seven again. Back then naivety was the norm and skepticism was a foreign language, and I just think every once in a while you need fries and a chocolate milkshake and your mom. I love picking up a cookbook and closing my eyes and opening it to a random page, then attempting to make that recipe. I've loved my fans from the very first day, but they've said things and done things recently that make me feel like they're my friends -- more now than ever before. I'll never go a day without thinking about our memories together.” 

“We should love, not fall in love, because everything that falls, gets broken.” 

“A few years have gone and come around when we were sittin' at our favorite spot in town and you looked at me, got down on one knee. Take me back to the time when we walked down the aisle; the whole town came and our mammas cried. And you said "I do.", and I did, too. Take me home where we met so many years before; we'll rock our babies on the very front porch. After all this time, you and I. And I'll be eighty-seven you'll be eighty-nine, I'll still look at you like the stars that shine. In the sky. Oh, my my my.” 

“These days, I've been trying to classify my thoughts into two categories: "Things I can change," and "Things I can't." It seems to help me sort through what to really stress about. But there I go again, over-planning and over-organizing my over-thinking! I write songs about my adventures and misadventures, most of which concern love. Love is a tricky business. But if it wasn't, I wouldn't be so enthralled with it. Lately I've come to a wonderful realization that makes me even more fascinated by it: I have no idea what I'm doing when it comes to love. No one does! There's no pattern to it, except that it happens to all of us, of course. I can't plan for it. I can't predict how it'll end up. Because love is unpredictable and it's frustrating and it's tragic and it's beautiful. And even though there's no way to feel like I'm an expert at it, it's worth writing songs about -- more than anything else I've ever experienced in my life.” 

“So to you, or anyone else who has spent four minutes on me in some way-- listening to just one song, or watching one of my videos….Thank you. I love you like I love sparkles and having the last word. And that's real love.” 

“There are two ways you can go with pain: You can let it destroy you or you can use it as fuel to drive you… ” 

“Don’t worry. You may think you’ll never get over it. But you also thought it would last forever.” 

“Unique and different is the new generation of beautiful… 
You dont have to be like everybody else. In fact I don’t think you should.” 

“Never believe anyone who tells you that you don't deserve what you want.” 

“Live your life like you're 80 looking back on your teenager years. You know if your dad calls you at eight in the morning and asks if you want to go out for breakfast. As a teenager you're like no, I want to sleep. But as an eighty year old looking back you have that breakfast with your dad. It just little things like that, that helped me when I was a teenager in terms of making choices you won't regret.” 

“Keeping your emotions all locked up is something that’s unfair to you. When you clearly know how you feel. You should say it.” 

“Beauty is sincerity.There are so many different ways someone can be beautiful.” 

“I rode an elevator with a guy who was whistling the tune of 'this is the song that never ends'. Putting that on me? Come on dude..” 

“I think I fell in love with words before I fell in love with music.” 

“Never never never compare yourself to the beautiful girls. There's always someone gorgeous who will make you feel like you're not. It's a total confidence buster!” 

“That’s always the hardest thing when someone completely has you fooled so much, that you think they’re just never going to hurt you, then they do. That’s when you get the worst heartbreak.” 

“When I was in high school, I remember seeing girls crying in the bathroom every Monday about what they did that weekend. I never wanted to be that girl crying in the bathroom.” 

“When we meet someone and we fall in love we don’t ever imagine that it’s going to end.” 

“In any relationship each person should support the other; they should lift the other up.” 

“Be yourself. There is no one better.” 

“My parents raised me to never feel like I was entitled to success.That you have to work for it. You have to work so hard for it. And sometimes then you don't even get where you need to go.” 

“The words. I love words. I love to write. Being an artist is what I love.” 

“So . . . middle school? Awkward. Having a hobby that's different from everyone else's? Awkward. Singing the national anthem on weekends instead of going to sleepovers? More awkward. Braces? Awkward. Gain a lot of weight before you hit the growth spurt? Awkward. Frizzy hair, don't embrace the curls yet? Awkward. Try to straighten it? Awkward!So many phases!” 

“Living alone, you can do so many fantastic things I’ve learned. You can like, walk around and have so many conversations with yourself and sing your thoughts. I think I’m the only one that does that…” 

“I think that personality traits that come through when somebody is really sincere is what makes them beautiful.” 

“When you’re singing you can hear the echo of people in the audience singing every single word with you, and that was that big dream that I had for myself. It’s happening.” 


“See, the thing is I didn't think that that song would get much attention because it's such a personal song to me. I just wrote it about my childhood, and I didn't know how that would read on an album. But it's been everybody's favorite song. I didn't tell my mom. It was a total secret. So I wrote it in secret and then decided to record it secretly, so she had no idea that the song was recorded. My producers sent me the track and I synched it up to all my baby videos and I played it for her one Christmas Eve, and she bawled her eyes out. She didn't even think that it was my song. She didn't think there was any way for me to record a song without her knowing.” 
“I write songs that are like diary entries. I have to do it to feel sane.” 

“My attitude has always been if you get better and you see success, that should motivate you to even work harder, so that's kinda how I approach everything.” 

“I'm not going to be that person who wants one thing their whole life, and then gets it and complains about.” 

“There are videos where I would go approaching strangers and sing the songs from 'The Lion King. I would have been about four years, and I came running up to people on the beach, strangers that I chose at random and began to sing, and my family never knew where I was, they were always looking for me, trying to imagine who I was harassing this time .” 

“Lady gagas "hair" is my theme song.” 

“Dude, my hair is like an architectural structure. It’s like… a building.” 

“My career always involved being the person in charge of what I was portraying to people. "I never wanted to be an image of something I didn't believe in, an image that somebody else had put together. The idea of that just really scared me, more than the idea of failing.” 

“My parents have always been very respectful of me so I’ve always been really respectful of them. My worst fear is to let them down so that’s why I don’t misbehave.” 

“She's like a sister. People say we're such opposites, but that's what makes us such good friends. She's incredibly blunt. I love that about her. If some guy has said or done something to me she doesn't like, she'll grab my cell phone and say, 'I'm deleting his number.” 

“I realized that I have very long arms so I can take the perfect arm-length picture with fans” 

“Mom is calculated, logical, business-minded; kind but very, very direct. Makes you better by giving you these little pointers but doesn’t baby you. My dad is a Chatty Cathy, the social butterfly; friendly; knows everybody in the whole world by six degrees; tells me that every performance is the greatest he’s ever seen, every new outfit is the coolest. Constant cheerleader. It’s cool to have pie-in-the-sky Dad, down-to-earth Mom.” 

“I discover poetry when I was in elementary school and I was so fascinated by it. Because I realised if you get the right amount of syllables and the right amount of words, in the right rhyme scheme and you put it all together. You make words just bounce of a page.” 

“When I think about the things that cause me pain or the things that cause me trouble or frustration, it's not people asking for my autograph; it's people breaking my heart. That happens to you whether you've sold millions of records or whether you're taking classes at college. You're going to believe people when they say that they love you. I don't leave out details when I write songs about that. I try to make my songs as personal as possible because, ultimately, my music started out as just trying to turn my diary entries into something that was a piece of music. And that has never changed.” 

“Having room to run and having just the space to use your imagination and create stories out of everyday life, I think that had a lot to do with me wanting write. And write songs” 

“I can remember her singing, the thrill of it," she said. "She was one of my first inspirations.The people around me provided all the inspiration I needed. Everything I wrote (at that time) came from that experience, what I observed happening around me.” 

“There's always that seventh-grade girl who looks like she's 25. And you're like, How do you do it? How do you do it, Sarah Jaxheimer?Why is your hair always so shiny?!” 

“My mom and I have always been really close. She’s always been the friend that was always there.” 

“I wouldn’t wear tiny amounts of clothing in my real life, so I don’t think it’s necessary to wear that stuff in photo shoots.” 

“My dad is adorably optimistic, positive, pie-in-the-sky. He thinks every new song I write is my best. He sells T-shirts at my merchandise stands and hands out guitar picks to fans.” 

“I watched their reactions and emotions, especially to understand what was what I was doing wrong. But then I realized that if I could see these people and take note of everything I saw, I could write a good song. ” 

“I didn't have friends. No one talked to me. I used to go to the Wyndcroft School (nationally recognized for academic excellence) in Pottstown, and when I moved to Wyomissing, I didn't know anybody.” 

“Hendersonville is home because I live there and I work there. But when I come back to Pennsylvania and see the crowds and the landscape, it's such a rush. It just feels like home.” 

“I got to play Kim in Bye Bye Birdie, Sandy in Grease, and Maria in The Sound of Music. And it was so much fun for me, but the thing that I looked forward to the most was at the cast parties. After the shows they had karaoke machines set up and that's when I could sing country music.” 

“There was one solo; but it was a guy. It was this character called 'Freddy Fast Talk' and it was the bad guy. I didn't care, I was like I will dress up like a guy, I want to sing that song. And so I remembered we drew on eyebrows, and I had like a moustache,and we put all my hair up in this hat. So I dressed like a guy and sang the solo.” 

“I began absolutely non-stop tormenting my parents, begging them on a daily basis to move there.” 

“Wasn't it beautiful when you believed in everything?” 

“I grew up on a Christmas tree farm in Reading, PA. It was the most magical fun childhood. We had grape arbours and we would make jam with my mom. My dad would go to work and he'd come home. He'd clean out stalls and fix split-row fences.” 

“Yes! I did [grow up on a Christmas Tree farm], so this is a good season for me. I was too young to help with the hauling of the trees up the hills and putting them onto cars. So, it was my job to pull off the preying mantis pods off of the Christmas trees. The problem with that is if you leave them on there, people bring them into their house. I forgot to check one time and they hatched all over these people’s house. And there were hundreds of thousands of them. And they had little kids, and they couldn’t kill of them because that’d be a bad Christmas.” 

“Mom is a planner, an organizer. She's very strong and practical. She's the person that'll tell me if I ever start to change my personality. The balance of the two of them created my personality.” 

“I always thought I'd be really fun to sing a song with Miley.” 
My fans don't feel like I hold anything back from them. They know whatever I'm going through now, they'll hear about it on a record someday. They'll hear the real story. There's a little bit of lag time. It's not as instant as going on a gossip blog. But it's much more accurate. 
“Beauty is sincerity. There are so many ways, different ways someone can be beautiful.”

“I’ve never felt like there’s just one way to be beautiful.”

“Never compare yourself to the beautiful girls. There’s always someone gorgeous who will make you feel like you’re not.”

“Unique and different is the new generation of beautiful. You don’t have to be like everyone else.”

“Anything you put your mind to and add your imagination into, can make your life a lot better and a lot more fun.”

“Happiness and confidence are the prettiest things you can wear.”

“I’m beginning to think that you don’t find happiness from living your life looking ahead or back… that you find it when you look around.”

“In life and love, you learn that there comes a time to let go and move on.”

“In life, you learn lessons. And sometimes you learn them the hard way. Sometimes you learn them too late.”

“In real life, saying the right thing at the right moment is beyond crucial. Most of us fear reaching the end of our lives and looking back, regretting moments we didn’t speak up. When we didn’t say “I love you.” When we should’ve said “I’m sorry”. When we didn’t stand up for ourselves or someone who needed help.”

“Just because something is over doesn’t mean it wasn’t incredibly beautiful. Because another lesson I’ve learned is not all stories have a happy ending and you have to learn to deal with that.”

“Life is a ruthless game unless you play it good and play it right.”

“Life is like walking you take one step at a time.”

“Life isn’t how to survive the storm, it’s about how to dance in the rain.”

“The trials and tribulations in your life make you stronger.”

“The world doesn’t owe you anything. You have to work for everything you get and you have to appreciate every bit of success the world gives you.”

“We don’t need to share the same opinions as others, but we need to be respectful.”

“You have people come into your life shockingly and surprisingly. You have losses that you never thought you’d experience. You have rejection and you have to learn  how to deal with that and how to get up the next day and go on with it.” 

“But no matter what love throws at you, you have to believe in it. You have to believe in love stories and prince charmings and happily ever after. That's why I write these songs. Because I think love is FEARLESS.” 

“I don’t think there’s such a thing as falling in love too easily or falling too fast. Or loving someone too soon or trusting someone too soon...I’ve never treated two relationships the same. Some people move you and some people don’t.”

“It’s the most maddening, beautiful, magical, horrible, painful, wonderful joyous thing in the world, love.”

“I think the perfection of love is when it’s not perfect.”

“I write a lot of songs about love and I think that’s because to me love seems like this huge complicated thing. But it seems like every once in a while, two people get it figured out, two people get it right. And so I think the rest of us, we walk about daydreaming about what might be like. To find that one great love, where all of a sudden everything that seemed to be so complicated, became simple.”

“Love always ends differently and it always begins differently.”

“Love is fascinating. Wishing for it, pinning for it and the anger that comes when you lose it. I used to think that I could figure out some pattern to love, but there is no pattern. Absolutely nothing is predictable in love.”

“Love is unpredictable and it’s frustrating and it’s tragic and it’s beautiful.”

“Love will find you when you least expect it.”

“My favorite thing in life is writing about life, specifically the parts of life concerning love. Because as far as I’m concerned, love is absolutely everything.”

 “Real love still happens sometimes. It's not just something we make up when you're nine. I have to believe that. You do too.” 

“The way I look at love is you have to follow it, and fall hard, if you fall hard. You have to forget what everyone else thinks. It has to be an us-against-the- world mentality. You have to make it work by prioritizing, and by falling in love really fast, without thinking too hard. If I think too hard about a relationship I’ll talk myself out of it. I have rules for a lot of areas in my life. Love is not going to be one of them.”

“There is a general rule that I always go by, and it’s that fall for who you fall for. Whatever small issue you get hung up on, whether it’s because they’re shorter than you, younger than you or they live far away- if you really are crazy about someone, none of that matters.”

 “To truly love is to have the courage to walk away and let the other person who wishes to be free go no matter how much it hurts.” 

“At some point you have to forget about grudges because they only hurt.” 

“Be that strong girl that everyone knew would make it through the worst, be that fearless girl, the one who would dare to do anything, be that independent girl who didn’t need a man; be that girl who never backed down.” 

“Be yourself, chase your dreams, and just never say never. That’s the best advice I could ever give to someone.”

“Being fearless isn’t being 100% not fearful, it’s being terrified but you jump anyway.”

“Don’t ever regret being honest. Period.”

“Fearless is getting back up and fighting for what you want over and over again…even though every time you’ve tried before you’ve lost.”

“For everything I do, I think about a 6-year-old and her mom that I saw at my concert last night. I think about what those two individuals would think if I were at a club last night. I never want to be arrested, and I never want to be arrested, and I never want to get a DUI those are my moral values.”

“Giving up doesn’t always mean you are weak, sometimes you’re just strong enough to let go.”

“If somebody hurts you, it’s okay to cry a river but remember to build a bridge and get over it.”

“If you’re lucky enough to be different, never change.

“If you’re lucky enough to find something that you love, and you have a shot at it, don’t stop, don’t put it down.”

“I believe when it comes to love, there’s something intangible about who we are attracted to.”

“I’ve questioned everything about myself, every step of the way. You have to have the same amount of fear and self-doubt as you do hope and blind optimism.”

“I wish all teenagers can filter through songs instead of turning to drugs and alcohol.”

“Just be yourself, there is no one better.”

“Keeping your emotions all locked up is something that’s unfair to you. When you clearly know how you feel, you should say it.”

“Live your life like you're 80 looking back on your teenager years. You know if your dad calls you at eight in the morning and asks if you want to go out for breakfast. As a teenager you're like no, I want to sleep. But as an eighty year old looking back you have that breakfast with your dad. It just little things like that, that helped me when I was a teenager in terms of making choices you won't regret.” 

“Never believe anyone who says you don’t deserve what you want.”

“No matter what happens in life, be good to people. Being good to people is a wonderful legacy to leave behind.”

“There are two ways you can go with pain: You can let it destroy you or you can use it as fuel to drive you.”

“What I’ve learned is not to change who you are, because eventually you’re going to run out of new things to become.””

“To me, Fearless is not the absence of fear. It’s not being completely unafraid. To me, Fearless is having fears. Fearless is having doubts. Lots of them. To me, Fearless is living in spite of those things that scare you to death.”

“Words can break someone into a million pieces, but they can also put them back together. I hope you use yours for good, because the only words you’ll regret more than the ones left unsaid are the ones you use to intentionally hurt someone.”

“You can’t have a better tomorrow if you keep thinking about yesterday.”

“You have to be happy with who you are and the choices you make. If you don’t like yourself, you’ll never be truly happy.”

“You have to stop looking in the mirror and realize that you’re living for yourself, not others.”

“You only get many firsts, each one is a blessing.”

“People haven’t always been there for me but music has.”

“People like music when they’re in love, but they don’t need it as much. You need music when you’re missing someone or you’re pinning for someone or you’re forgetting someone or you’re trying to process what just happened.”

“For me, Genres are a way of categorizing music. But it doesn’t‎’t have to define you. It doesn’t have to limit you.”

“I feel in my music I can be a rebel. I can say things I wouldn’t say in real life.”

“I’ve always felt music is the only way to give instantaneous moment the feel of slow motion. To romanticize it and glorify it and give it a soundtrack and a rhythm.”

“Music is my shining light, my favorite thing in the world. To get me to stop doing it for one second would be difficult!”

“My definition of country music is really simple. It’s when someone sings about their life and what they know, from an authentic place.”

“Nobody in country music “made it” the same way. It’s all different. There’s no blueprint for success, and sometimes you just have to work at it.”

“If you’re horrible to me, I’m going to write a song about it and you won’t like it. That’s how I operate.”

“I have no idea what I’m doing when it comes to love. No one does! There’s no pattern to it, except that it happens to all of us, of course. I can’t plan for it; I can’t predict how it will end up.”

“I love all the girls who have my song on their myspaces. I love the people who come to my shows and put the pictures on here. I love the people at those shows who sing along with me. I love reading your stories in emails, some so touching they've given me chills. I love every single person who has wanted my autograph, because for the life of me I never really thought it would mean something to someone for me to write my name down. I love the little girls who stand in line with their mothers like I used to do. That was me. I love the couple who danced to my song at their wedding. Every comment, letter, and message. I love people who listen to the radio. I love every single person who is reading this, because you've let me into your life.” “I love you all so much, I just wanted you to know.” 

“I’d rather be at home and eat ice cream than go out and get wasted.”

“I’m not complicated. My complications come out in my songs. All you need to do to be my friend is like me.”

“I still love sparkles and grocery shopping and really old cats that are only nice to you half the time. I still love writing in my journal and wearing dresses all the time and staring at chandeliers.”

“I’m always going to be a hopeless romantic. Always.”

“I’m intimidated by the fear of being average.”

“I’ve always been a hugger. If we all hugged more, the world would be a better place.”

“I’ve found growing up can mean a lot of things. For me, it doesn’t mean I should become somebody completely new and stop loving the things I used to love. It means I’ve added more things on my list.”

“I’ve never been shy or secretive with the fact that if you walk into my life, you may be walking onto a record.”

“I want a guy who takes charge, but lets me have my say once in a while.”

“I want to be an over-achiever, and I want to be known for the good things in life.”

“I would love to continue in music, with writing… but I am not the kind of person who will hang around if I start to become irrelevant. If that happens, I will bow down gracefully, raise my kids, and have a garden. And I am going to let my hair go gray when I am older.  I don’t need to be blonde when I’m 60!”

“I’ve wanted one thing for me whole life and I’m not going to be that girl who wants one thing her whole life then gets it and complains.”

“I never want to change so much that people can’t recognize me.”

“I suffer from girlnextdooritis where a guy is friends with you and that’s it.”

“I write songs to help me understand life a little more. I write songs to get past things that cause me pain. And I write songs because sometimes life makes more sense to me when it’s being sung in a chorus. And when I can write in a verse.”

“So to you, or anyone else who has spent four minutes on me in some way-- listening to just one song, or watching one of my videos….Thank you. I love you like I love sparkles and having the last word. And that's real love.” 

“As I grow up, the lessons I learn in love and relationships and how we treat each other are hopefully maturing-maturing.”

“A good relationship is all about balance and chemistry.”

“In a relationship each person should support each other. They should lift each other up.”

“You need to be happy with yourself or you’ll never be able to be happy in a relationship.”The cool thing about reading is that when you read a short story or you read something that takes your mind and expands where your thoughts can go, that's powerful.

Anything you put your mind to and add your imagination into can make your life a lot better and a lot more fun.

My head's never really quiet. The only time I can get it to turn off is if I watch 'CSI' or 'Law & Order,' where I have to follow the crime. If I can't turn my head off during that, I know I've really got a problem.

Writing 'We Are Never Getting Back Together' was one of the most hilarious experiences I have ever had in the studio because it just happened so naturally.

Part of me feels you can't say you were truly in love if it didn't last. If I end up getting married and having kids, that's when I'll know it's real - because it lasted.

A letdown is worth a few songs. A heartbreak is worth a few albums.

I don't think there's an option for me to fall in love slowly or at medium speed. I either do, or I don't.

If I think too hard about a relationship, I'll talk myself out of it. 

I try to read as much as I can. I try to read an informative article every day. I try to stay read up on our world issues. 

I have rules for a lot of areas of my life. Love is not going to be one of them. 

I think who you are in school really sticks with you. 

If you are lucky enough to find something that you love, and you have a shot at being good at it, don't stop, don't put it down.

When you say 'control freak' and 'OCD' and 'organized,' that suggests someone who's cold in nature, and I'm just not. Like, I'm really open when it comes to letting people in. But I just like my house to be neat, and I don't like to make big messes that would hurt people.

For me, genres are a way for people to easily categorize music. But it doesn't have to define you. It doesn't have to limit you.

You can make a board for all the goals you want in your life with the pictures on it, and that's great, daydreaming is wonderful, but you can never plan your future

I'm never in the same place for more than, like, three days at a time. Things can change from one minute to the next.

I have so many playlists full of Rihanna, Nicki Minaj, Lil Wayne, Chris Brown.

I think, a lot of times when you meet someone, you feel like you need to appear like you're not interested in them so that they'll be more interested in you. But what happens when you start showing him that you actually like him? What's he gonna do then? Play the tape forward; how do you keep a guy like that? I don't want to sign up for that.

I'm a girls' girl. I have guy friends, but the problem with having guy friends is, like, I always get linked to them, and they'll end up in a slideshow of people I've apparently dated on the Internet.

My audience has really become a very diverse group of people. It's not just 15-year-old girls. That's kind of what allows me to write from all the different places I want to write from.

When I'm in management meetings when we're deciding my future, those decisions are left up to me. I'm the one who has to go out and fulfill all these obligations, so I should be able to choose which ones I do or not. That's the part of my life where I feel most in control.

You can draw inspiration from anything. If you're a good storyteller, you can take a dirty look somebody gives you, or if a guy you used to have flirtations with starts dating a new girl, or somebody you're casually talking to says something that makes you so mad - you can create an entire scenario around that.

I heard that when Christina Aguilera went back to her prom, people, like, booed her. I can't imagine going through that. If you know that's going to happen, why put yourself in that situation? I'd rather play for 20,000 screaming people, you know?

I've never thought about any kind of prejudice about women in country music because I never felt like it affected me. I was fortunate enough to come about in a time when I didn't feel that kind of energy at all, and it was always my theory that if you want to play in the same ballgame as the boys, you've got to work as hard as them.

As supportive as my hometown is, in my high school, there are people who would probably walk up to me and punch me in the face. There's a select few that will never like me. They don't like what I stand for. They don't like somebody who stands for being sober, who stands for anything happy. They're going to be negative no matter what.

I've found that men I've dated who are in the same business can be really competitive. I've found a great group of girlfriends in the same business who aren't competitive, but a few times guys have started comparing careers and it has been... challenging. 

When I go to a restaurant, yeah, I know that a line is probably going to form in front of the table, but didn't I always wish for that? Yeah, I did.

I think Kenny Chesney or Garth Brooks would be the coolest duet partners. I look up to them so much for their work ethics.

I think the first thing you should know is that nobody in country music 'made it' the same way. It's all different. There's no blueprint for success, and sometimes you just have to work at it.

'Love Story' is actually about a guy that I almost dated. But when I introduced him to my family and my friends, they all said they didn't like him. All of them!

So many girls come up and say to me, 'I have never listened to country music in my life. I didn't even know my town had a country-music station. Then I got your record, and now I'm obsessed.' That's the coolest compliment to me.

I've been singing Shakira songs in front of my bathroom mirror into my hairbrush forever. It's like a daily routine.

I am completely fascinated by the differences and comparisons between real life and fairy tales because we're raised as little girls to think that we're a princess and that Prince Charming is going to sweep us off our feet. 

I have so many indie bands on my iPod. What I don't really understand is the attitude that if a band is unknown, they're good, and if they get fans, then you move on to the next band.

I cap myself when I shop; I don't like to spend extravagant amounts on clothes. But, I do get lent clothes for events, it's scary to wear something so expensive, but I feel really pampered.

When I'm writing a record, I kind of don't listen to much music. Just because I want to be inspired solely on the emotion; just based on how it feels.

Since I was old enough to understand what a songwriter/producer is, I've had a curiosity about how Max Martin creates what he creates. I wanted to see that happen. I wanted to be there. I wanted to learn from him.

I've been a huge fan of Chris Martin forever; it'd be awesome to work with him. He's really kind, and he's been really encouraging when we've met.

Since I was old enough to understand what a songwriter/producer is, I've had a curiosity about how Max Martin creates what he creates. I wanted to see that happen. I wanted to be there. I wanted to learn from him. 

Most of my songs have names of people I've met or are dear to me. There are people who have privacy issues and about people knowing about their private life. But for me, I like to include few special names and few details about them to make the song very special to me.

I'm 5'11, so when I wear heels, it's definitely a really good view that I have. I'm, like, 6'2 when I wear heels, so I tend to wear cowboy boots a lot.

I don't like to feel like I'm in a club when I'm in my car and I turn on the radio. Anything that ceases to be a song and just sounds like house music kind of stresses me out.

The only way I hear gossip is if it's big enough and loud enough for my friends to bring it up to me. Or if it's, like, a big untrue ordeal from my publicist - and she hates making that phone call!

I would love to sign on to do a movie if it was the right role and if it was the right script, because I would be taking time away from music to tell a big grand story, and spend all of my time and pouring all of my emotions into being someone else. So for me to do that, it would have to be a story worth telling.

Sitting on a bedroom floor crying is something that makes you feel really alone. If someone's singing about that feeling, you feel bonded to that person.

One element of Madonna's career that really takes center stage is how many times she's reinvented herself. It's easier to stay in one look, one comfort zone, one musical style. It's inspiring to see someone whose only predictable quality is being unpredictable.

I don't mind being pale. In high school, it seemed like everybody cared about being tan all year round, but I haven't really thought about it since then. I don't go to a tanning bed, and I get bored when I lay out. I put sunscreen on when I'm in the sun, and sometimes I get tan, but I don't really think about it very much.

I never give advice unless someone asks me for it. One thing I've learned, and possibly the only advice I have to give, is to not be that person giving out unsolicited advice based on your own personal experience.

I'm the girl who - I call it girl-next-door-itis - the hot guy is friends with and gets all his relationship advice from but never considers dating.

My confidence is easy to shake. I am very well aware of all of my flaws. I am aware of all the insecurities that I have. 

I really like Lady GaGa and everything she is for her fans.

My style advice to other girls is to be experimental but always have a 'home base' and stick with your comfort style.

I don't have a type. I don't have a specific kind of human being. It's just kind of an X-factor of sorts. Everybody I've ever dated has been a case-by-case situation.

I'm always afraid of failing. I have to quiet that fear if I'm going to get up in the morning.

Songs for me are like a message in a bottle. You send them out to the world, and maybe the person who you feel that way about will hear about it someday.

I'm a Sagittarius, and one of our major qualities is that we're blindly optimistic.

I've been my mom's kitchen helper since I was a little kid. 

When I figured out how to work my grill, it was quite a moment. I discovered that summer is a completely different experience when you know how to grill.

My absolute favorite meal in Nashville is sweet-potato pancakes at Pancake Pantry.

I still have mixed feelings about what growing up is - this thing that happens to everyone, so I've heard.

I don't like to feel like I'm some fragile package that has to be shipped by high-priority mail and handled with white gloves.

Even if you're happy with the life you've chosen, you're still curious about the other options.

When I was younger we had a grape arbor, and my mom would go out and pick grapes and make grape jam in the sink - boil it, put it in jars, and give it away as gifts.

I am getting to the point where the only love worth being in is the love worth singing about.

It's kind of exhilarating, walking through a crazy, insane mob. The most miraculous process is watching a song go from a tiny idea in the middle of the night to something that 55,000 people are singing back to you.

When I was a teenager, my biggest lessons came from Kenny Chesney, Tim McGraw, George Strait, Rascal Flatts and Brad Paisley. I learned so much from opening up for those artists, and it also taught me how to treat your opening acts and make them feel like they're part of a family, not just a tour.

My favorite thing in life is writing about life, specifically the parts of life concerning love. Because, as far as I'm concerned, love is absolutely everything.

I have to work really hard to get the record deal - I have to spend years at it to get good. I have to practice to be good at guitar.

Guarding your heart and protecting your dignity are a little bit more important than clarifying the emotions of someone who's only texting you back three words. I've learned that from trying to figure out people who don't deserve to be figured out.

If there's a pregnancy rumor, people will find out it's not true when you wind up not being pregnant, like nine months from now, and if there's a house rumor, they'll find out it's not true when you are actively not ever spotted at that house.

I think who you are in school really sticks with you. I don't ever feel like the cool kid at the party, ever. It's like, 'Smile and be nice to everybody, because you were not invited to be here.'

It never mattered to me that people in school didn't think that country music was cool, and they made fun of me for it - though it did matter to me that I was not wearing the clothes that everybody was wearing at that moment. But at some point, I was just like, 'I like wearing sundresses and cowboy boots.'

I look out at the stadiums full of people and see them all knowing the words to songs I wrote. And curling their hair! I remember straightening my hair because I wanted to be like everybody else, and now the fact that anybody would emulate what I do? It's just funny. And wonderful.

I didn't always have 14,000 people wanting to hang out with me on a Saturday night.

I always wanted to know, and I always used to daydream, about what it would be like to stand on a really big stage and sing songs for a lot of people, songs that I had written... Daydreaming was kind of my No. 1 thing when I was little, because I didn't have much of a social life going on. 

I love being a part of the country-music community. 

Country radio is much more like a family than any other group of people that I've met. 

I felt like my favorite writers have almost musical hooks in their work, whether it's poetry or a hook at the end of a chapter that makes you want to read the next one. And I think that my favorite writers definitely have something musical about what they do, in saying something so relatable and universal and so simple.

I've written all my songs on every single one of my records, and that's what's been fun about looking back. 

I've always written songs the same way. You learn different tricks - you learn craft, you learn structure, all that - as you go.

I put out one album one week, and I'm already worried about the next one. I feel a lot of emotion throughout the course of a day. But not to the point where you need to be worried about me.

Some days I totally appreciate everything that's happening to me, and some days I feel everyone's waiting for me to mess up.

For me, 'risky' is revealing what really happened in my life through music. Risky is writing confessional songs and telling the true story about a person with enough details so everyone knows who that person is.

I think everyone should approach relationships from the perspective of playing it straight and giving someone the benefit of the doubt. Until he establishes that this is a game. And if it's a game, you need to win. The best thing to do is just walk away from the table.

My experience with songwriting is usually so confessional, it's so drawn from my own life and my own stories.

One thing I've tried to never do is make wish lists. I try to have a very steppingstone mentality about this whole thing, where as soon as you make one step you visualize the next step, not five steps ahead.

I've never been shy or secretive with the fact that if you walk into my life, you may be walking onto a record.

I can't deal with someone wanting to take a relationship backward or needing space or cheating on you. It's a conscious thing; it's a common-sense thing. 

When I'm 40 and nobody wants to see me in a sparkly dress anymore, I'll be like: 'Cool, I'll just go in the studio and write songs for kids.'

Sometimes I write about my own life. And sometimes I write about situations I see my friends going through. Sometimes I write about a scene I saw in a movie. I take inspiration from all different places.

I think people inspire me the most. If I meet a person who is incredibly complex, and all of a sudden, I start thinking in rhymes, that person could be a muse. 

Here's what I've learned about deal-breakers. If you have enough natural chemistry with someone, you overlook every single thing that you said would break the deal

I never read one hateful thing said about me by some 12 year old. So I got to live an actual life. And I've kept that mentality. Just because there's a hurricane going on around you doesn't mean you have to open the window and look at it.


Songs are my diaries; they always have been. You have to put your trust in everyone because putting down those real, personal details and thoughts that make a song authentic also opens you right up. I am constantly misunderstood; a lot of people just don't get me.


I think that when you're making your way up in the music industry, you have all these heroes and the reasons why they are your heroes. As soon as you get into the industry, your guidelines change a little bit. For me, my heroes now are great people first and great artists second.

When we're falling in love or out of it, that's when we most need a song that says how we feel. Yeah, I write a lot of songs about boys. And I'm very happy to do that.

I let people fill in the blanks on their own. If they want to think about their ex, that's fine. If they want to think about maybe who one of my exes is, then that's fine. And it might not be right, because I'm the only one who knows what these songs are really about. It's the one shred of privacy I have in the matter.

Music is changing so quickly, and the landscape of the music industry itself is changing so quickly, that everything new, like Spotify, all feels to me a bit like a grand experiment.

No matter what happens in life, be good to people. Being good to people is a wonderful legacy to leave behind.
I've always felt music is the only way to give an instantaneous moment the feel of slow motion. To romanticise it and glorify it and give it a soundtrack and a rhythm. 
I don't ever feel like the cool kid at the party, ever. It's like, 'Smile and be nice to everybody, because you were not invited to be here.'
I think about food literally all day every day. It's a thing
